.\"
.\" $Id$
.\"
.TH PROOFD 1 "Version 3" "ROOT"
.\" NAME should be all caps, SECTION should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parms are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.SH NAME
proofd \- PROOF (The Parallel ROOT Facility)

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Using \fBPROOF\fI (The \fIP\fRarallel \fIROO\fRT \fIF\fRacility) one
can analyze trees in parallel on a cluster of computers. The
\fBPROOF\fR system consists of the \fIproofd\fR(1) from-end program
which is started via \fIinetd\fR(8).  
.PP
\fIproofd\fR takes care of user authentication and overlays itself
then with the desired version of the \fIproofserv\fR(1)
executable. 
.PP The \fIproofserv\fR(1) is a basically the same as the \fBROOT\fR
interactive module \fIroot\fR(1), except that it reads its commands
from a socket instead of from the terminal. 
.PP
Since it is a remote server it will not do graphics and therefore is
not linked with any graphics libraries (Motif, X11, etc.). 

.SH "SETTING UP PROOF"
Since you need to handle sensitive system files, you need to have root
(the user, not the program!) privileges. Also, it's recommended that
you read the appropiate \fIman\fR(1) pages first. These are
\fIinetd\fR(8) (the internet daemon), \fIsysklogd\fR(8) and
\fIsyslog\fR(3) (the system logger daemon),  and \fIinit\fR(8) (the
SYSV process control initializer).
.PP
In other words:
.RS
.I Be very VERY carefull when installing \fBproofd\fR
.RE
There, I said it. And ofcourse, no warrenties what so ever.
.TP
1
Make sure every node has \fBROOT\fR installed. We'll assume you
installed the \fBROOT\fR applications in <\fIbindir\fR>
(e.g. \fI/usr/bin\fR) and the \fBPROOF\fR configuration files in 
files in \fI<proofdir>/etc\fB (e.g. \fI/usr/share/root/etc\fB). 

.TP 
2
The TCP port 1094 was allocated by \fBIANA\fR, (
.UR Iwww.iana.org
\fIwww.iana.org\fR
.UE
),
to \fBrootd\fR, so add to \fI/etc/services\fR the lines:
.nf

  proofd  1093/tcp
  rootd   1094/tcp

.fi

.TP
3
On each node, add to \fI/etc/inetd.conf\fR the lines:
.nf

  proofd stream tcp nowait root <\fIbindir\fR>/proofd proofd <\fIproofdir\fR>/proof
  rootd stream tcp nowait root <\fIbindir\fR>/rootd rootd -i

.fi
You can substitute the <\fIproofdir\fR> with any directory that holds
your \fBPROOF\fR configuration, for example
\fI/etc/root/proof\fR. However, it should be shared among all nodes in
the cluster.

.TP
4
Restart \fBinetd\fR or force it to re-read the config file:
.nf  

  kill -1 <\fIinetd pid\fR>

.fi
If you use \fBSYSV\fR \fIinit\fR(8) scripts, you can probaly just do
.nf

  /etc/init.d/inetd restart

.fi
or whatever is appropiate for your system.

.TP
5
On the master node, add to \fI/etc/syslog.conf\fR  the line:
.nf

    local5,local6.debug     <\fIproofdir\fR>/log/proof.log

.fi
and all slave nodes:
.nf

    local5,local6.debug     @<\fImaster hostname\fR>

.fi
where <\fImaster hostname\fR> is domain name of the master node.
All PROOF syslog messages will be collected on the master node.
Just make one node in the cluster the master, all others are slaves.

.TP 
6
On all nodes, change the below lines in \fI/etc/syslog.conf\fR,
.nf

    *.info;mail.none;news.none;authpriv.none  /var/log/messages

.fi
to:
.nf

    *.info;local5,local6,mail.none;news.none;authpriv.none  /var/log/messages

.fi

.TP
7
Create an empty <\fIproofdir\fR>/log/proof.log:
.nf 

    echo "" > <\fIproofdir\fR>/log/proof.log

.fi

.TP
8
Restart syslogd or force it to re-read the config file:
.nf
 
  kill -1 <\fIsyslogd pid\fR>.

.fi
If you use \fBSYSV\fR \fIinit\fR(8) scripts, you can probaly just do
.nf

  /etc/init.d/sysklogd restart

.fi
or whatever is appropiate for your system.

.TP
9
Edit <\fIproofdir\fR>\fI/etc/proof.conf\fR to reflect your cluster
configuration. See the example \fIproof.conf\fR file for more
information.  
.PP
If you installed \fBROOT\fR using some precompiled package (for
example a \fBRedhat Linux\fR or a \fBDebian GNU/Linux\fR package),
steps 2 to 4 may already be done for you. 
.PP 
If you're running \fBLinux\fR, Steps 5 to 7 can be somewhat automated
using the script \fIproof-facility\fR in <\fIproofdir\fR> of your
distribution. This script uses \fIsyslog-facility\fR(1), from the
\fBLinux\fR \fIsyslog\fR(1) distribution, and may run on other
platforms as well - but no warrenties mind you!
.PP
Step 9 is completly up to the user.  
.SH "EXAMPLE"
That's it. To test PROOF try the following:
.nf

   root [1] gROOT->Proof("<\fImaster hostname\fR>")
   root [2] gPROOF->Print()
   <shows information on the master and all active slave servers>
   root [3] .q

.fi
.SH "FILES"
.TP
<\fIproofdir\fB>
The location of your \fBPROOF\fI data. In binary packages, like for
\fBRedhat Linux\fII or \fBDebian GNU/Linux\fR, this will probably be
\fI/usr/share/root/proof\fB. If you got a binary \fItar\fR(1)-ball
from the \fBROOT\fR website, or a build it yourself without the static
paths option, then this directory could be ROOTSYS/proof. However, you
may set it to something else when starting your server. 
.TP
<\fIproofdir\fB>/etc\fR
This directory holds all the configuration files for your cluster(s).
.TP
<\fIproofdir\fB>/etc/<cluster>.conf\fR
This is the cluster named <\fIcluster\fR> configuration file. See 
<\fIproofdir\fB>/etc/<cluster>.conf.sample\fR for an example.
.TP 
<\fIproofdir\fB>/etc/motd\fR
This is Message-Of-The-Day file. See
<\fIproofdir\fB>/etc/motd.sample\fR for an example. 
.TP
<\fIproofdir\fB>/etc/noproof\fR
If this file is present, all \fBPROOF\fR services will be diabled. See
<\fIproofdir\fB>/etc/noproof.sample\fR for an example. 
.TP
<\fIproofdir\fB>/etc/proof.conf\fR
This is the  \fBPROOF\fR configuration file. See 
<\fIproofdir\fB>/etc/proof.conf.sample\fR for an example. 
.TP
\fB~/.rootnetrc.conf\fR
Configuration file for network access. Here you specify login names
and pass word, so it \fBMUST\fI be read/write-able only by the user. 
See <\fIproofdir\fB>/etc/rootnetrc.conf.sample\fR for an example. 
.TP
<\fIproofdir\fB>/log\fR
This directory holds the log files from the master and slaves. 
<\fIproofdir\fB>/log/proof.log\fR
\fISyslog\fR(1) log file for \fBPROOF\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR proofserv (1) 
,
.IR root (1) 
,
.IR rootd (1)
.PP 
More information can be found at the \fBROOT\fR website:
.UR http://root.cern.ch
\fIhttp://root.cern.ch\fB
.UE
.SH "ORIGINAL AUTHORS"
The ROOT team (see web page above):
.RS
\fBRene Brun\fR and \fBFons Rademakers\fR 
.RE
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
\fBROOT\fR Software Terms and Conditions
.PP
The authors hereby grant permission to use, copy, and distribute this
software and its documentation for any purpose, provided that existing
copyright notices are retained in all copies and that this notice is
included verbatim in any distributions. Additionally, the authors grant
permission to modify this software and its documentation for any purpose,
provided that such modifications are not distributed without the explicit
consent of the authors and that existing copyright notices are retained in
all copies. Users of the software are asked to feed back problems, benefits,
and/or suggestions about the software to the ROOT Development Team
(rootdev@root.cern.ch). Support for this software - fixing of bugs,
incorporation of new features - is done on a best effort basis. All bug
fixes and enhancements will be made available under the same terms and
conditions as the original software,
.PP
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR DISTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY FOR
DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT
OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, ITS DOCUMENTATION, OR ANY DERIVATIVES THEREOF,
EVEN IF THE AUTHORS HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.PP
THE AUTHORS AND DISTRIBUTORS SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIM ANY WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. THIS SOFTWARE IS
PROVIDED ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, AND THE AUTHORS AND DISTRIBUTORS HAVE NO
OBLIGATION TO PROVIDE MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT, UPDATES, ENHANCEMENTS, OR
MODIFICATIONS.
.SH AUTHOR 
This manual page was written by Christian Holm Christensen
<cholm@nbi.dk>, for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by
others). 
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\"
