.\"
.\" $Id$
.\"
.TH PROOFSERV 1 "Version 3" "ROOT"
.\" NAME should be all caps, SECTION should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parms are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.SH NAME
proofserv \- PROOF (The Parallel ROOT Facility)
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Using \fBPROOF\fI (The \fIP\fRarallel \fIROO\fRT \fIF\fRacility) one
can analyze trees in parallel on a cluster of computers. The
\fBPROOF\fR system consists of the \fIproofd\fR(1) from-end program
which is started via \fIinetd\fR(8).  
.PP
\fIproofd\fR takes care of user authentication and overlays itself
then with the desired version of the \fIproofserv\fR(1)
executable. 
.PP The \fIproofserv\fR(1) is a basically the same as the \fBROOT\fR
interactive module \fIroot\fR(1), except that it reads its commands
from a socket instead of from the terminal. 
.PP
Since it is a remote server it will not do graphics and therefore is
not linked with any graphics libraries (Motif, X11, etc.). 

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR proofd (1) 
,
.IR root (1) 
,
.IR rootd (1)
.PP 
More information can be found at the \fBROOT\fR website:
.UR http://root.cern.ch
\fIhttp://root.cern.ch\fB
.UE
.SH "ORIGINAL AUTHORS"
The ROOT team (see web page above): 
.RS
\fBRene Brun\fR and \fBFons Rademakers\fR 
.RE
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
\fBROOT\fR Software Terms and Conditions
.PP
The authors hereby grant permission to use, copy, and distribute this
software and its documentation for any purpose, provided that existing
copyright notices are retained in all copies and that this notice is
included verbatim in any distributions. Additionally, the authors grant
permission to modify this software and its documentation for any purpose,
provided that such modifications are not distributed without the explicit
consent of the authors and that existing copyright notices are retained in
all copies. Users of the software are asked to feed back problems, benefits,
and/or suggestions about the software to the ROOT Development Team
(rootdev@root.cern.ch). Support for this software - fixing of bugs,
incorporation of new features - is done on a best effort basis. All bug
fixes and enhancements will be made available under the same terms and
conditions as the original software,
.PP
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR DISTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY FOR
DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT
OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, ITS DOCUMENTATION, OR ANY DERIVATIVES THEREOF,
EVEN IF THE AUTHORS HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.PP
THE AUTHORS AND DISTRIBUTORS SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIM ANY WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. THIS SOFTWARE IS
PROVIDED ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, AND THE AUTHORS AND DISTRIBUTORS HAVE NO
OBLIGATION TO PROVIDE MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT, UPDATES, ENHANCEMENTS, OR
MODIFICATIONS.
.SH AUTHOR 
This manual page was written by Christian Holm Christensen
<cholm@nbi.dk>, for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by
others). 
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\"
