.\"
.\" $Id$
.\"
.TH ROOTCINT 1 "Version 3" "ROOT"
.\" NAME should be all caps, SECTION should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parms are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.SH NAME
rootcint \- ROOT Dictionary generator 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fBrootcint \fIheader_file\fR[+][-][!] ... [LinkDef.h] > \fIdict_file\fR 
\fBrootcint \fR[-f] \fIdict_file \fR[-c] \fIheader_file\fR[+][-][!] ... [LinkDef.h]
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION" 
The 
.B rootcint 
program generates the 
.IR Streamer() , 
.I TBuffer &operator>>() 
and 
.I ShowMembers() 
methods for 
.B ROOT 
classes, i.e. classes using the
.I ClassDef 
and 
.I ClassImp 
macros. 
In addition 
.B rootcint 
can also generate the 
.B CINT 
dictionaries needed in order to get access to ones classes via the
interpreter.  
.PP 
.B rootcint 
can be used like: 
.sp 1 
.RS
.nf
.B rootcint TAttAxis.h[-][!] ... [LinkDef.h] > AxisGen.C
.fi
.RE
or 
.RS
.nf
.B rootcint [-f] [AxDict.C] [-c] TAttAxis.h[-][!] ... [LinkDef.h]
.fi
.RE
.sp 1
The difference between the two is that in the first case only the
.I  Streamer() 
and 
.I ShowMembers() 
methods are generated while in the latter case a  complete compileable
file is generated (including the include statements). The first method
also allows the output to be appended to an already existing file
(using 
.B >>
). The optional minus behind the include file name tells 
.B rootcint 
to not generate the 
.B Streamer() 
method. A custom method must be provided by the user in that
case. When using option 
.B -c 
also the interpreter method interface stubs will be written to the
output file (
.B AxDict.C 
in the above case).  
By default the output file will not be overwritten if it exists. Use
the 
.B -f (force) 
option to overwite the output file.  
.PP 
Before specifying the first header file one can also add include file
directories to be searched and preprocessor defines, like:  
.sp 1 
.RS
.nf
.B -I$../include -DDebug
.fi
.RE
.sp 1
The (optional) file 
.B LinkDef.h 
looks like: 
.sp 1 
.RS
.nf
#ifdef __CINT__

#pragma link off all globals;
#pragma link off all classes;
#pragma link off all functions;

#pragma link C++ class TAxis;
#pragma link C++ class TAttAxis-;
#pragma link C++ class TArrayC-!;

#pragma link C++ function StrDup;
#pragma link C++ function operator+(const TString&,const TString&);

#pragma link C++ global gROOT;
#pragma link C++ global gEnv;

#pragma link C++ enum EMessageTypes;

#endif
.fi 
.RE
.sp 1
This file tells 
.B rootcint 
for which classes the method interface stubs should be generated. A
trailing `-' in the class name tells 
.B rootcint 
to not generate the 
.B Streamer() 
method. This is necessary for those classes that need a customized 
.B Streamer() 
method. A trailing `!' in the class name tells 
.B rootcint
to not generate the 
.B operator>>(TBuffer &b, MyClass *&obj) 
method. This is necessary to be able to write pointers to objects of
classes not inheriting from 
.I TObject. 
When this file is not specified a default version exporting the
classes with the names equal to the include files minus the 
.B .h 
is generated. 
.PP 
.B IMPORTANT: 
.TP
1
.B LinkDef.h 
must be the last argument on the 
.B rootcint command line. 
.TP
2
Note that the 
.B LinkDef 
file name MUST contain the string:
.B LinkDef.h 
or 
.BR linkdef.h , 
i.e. 
.B NA49_LinkDef.h 
is fine just like, 
.BR mylinkdef.h . 
.El
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIroot\fR(1), \fIcint\fR(1)
.PP
.B rootcint 
is  documented fully on  
.US http://root.cern.ch/root/RootCintMan.html
.I http://root.cern.ch/root/RootCintMan.html
.UE
.SH "ORIGINAL AUTHORS"
The ROOT team (see web page above):
.RS
.B Rene Brun 
and
.B Fons Rademakers
.RE
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
ROOT Software Terms and Conditions
.PP
The authors hereby grant permission to use, copy, and distribute this
software and its documentation for any purpose, provided that existing
copyright notices are retained in all copies and that this notice is
included verbatim in any distributions. Additionally, the authors grant
permission to modify this software and its documentation for any purpose,
provided that such modifications are not distributed without the explicit
consent of the authors and that existing copyright notices are retained in
all copies. Users of the software are asked to feed back problems, benefits,
and/or suggestions about the software to the ROOT Development Team
(rootdev@root.cern.ch). Support for this software - fixing of bugs,
incorporation of new features - is done on a best effort basis. All bug
fixes and enhancements will be made available under the same terms and
conditions as the original software,
.PP
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR DISTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY FOR
DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT
OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, ITS DOCUMENTATION, OR ANY DERIVATIVES THEREOF,
EVEN IF THE AUTHORS HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.PP
THE AUTHORS AND DISTRIBUTORS SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIM ANY WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. THIS SOFTWARE IS
PROVIDED ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, AND THE AUTHORS AND DISTRIBUTORS HAVE NO
OBLIGATION TO PROVIDE MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT, UPDATES, ENHANCEMENTS, OR
MODIFICATIONS.
.SH AUTHOR 
This manual page was written by Christian Holm Christensen
<cholm@nbi.dk>, for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by
others). 
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\"
