.\"
.\" $Id: root-config.1,v 1.1 2000/12/08 17:41:01 rdm Exp $
.\"
.TH ROOT-CONFIG 1 "Version 3" "ROOT"
.\" NAME should be all caps, SECTION should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parms are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.SH NAME
root-config \- ROOT utility for your Makefiles
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B root-config
.I "[options]"
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Put lines like 
.RS 
.nf 
CFLAGS = $(shell root-config --cflags)
LIBS   = $(shell root-config --libs)
GLIBS  = $(shell root-config --glibs)

%Cint.cxx:%Inc.h %LinkDef.h
        rootcint -f $@ -c $^ 
.fi
.RE
in you Makefile.
.PP
You may also find the \fIautomake\fR(1), \fIautoconf\fR(1), and
\fIlibtool\fR(1) macro file \fI/usr/share/root/acinclude.m4\fR
useful. Copy the contents to your source package \fIacinclude.m4\fR
file, and in the directories you use \fBROOT\fR libraries, have in your
\fIMakefile.am\fR file:
.RS 
.nf 
lib_LTLIBRARIES         = libFoo.la
libFoo_la_SOURCES       = Foo.cxx       Foo.h \\
                          FooCint.cxx   FooCint.h
libFoo_la_LDFLAGS       = -version-info 1:0

BUILT_SOURCES           = FooCint.cxx FooCint.h 

ROOTCONF                = @ROOTCONF@
ROOTCINT                = $(shell $(ROOTCONF) --prefix)/bin/rootcint
ROOTLIBS                = $(shell $(ROOTCONF) --libs)
ROOTCFLAGS              = $(shell $(ROOTCONF) --cflags)

INCLUDES                = -I$(top_srcdir)/include $(ROOTCFLAGS)
CINTINCLUDES            = -I$(top_srcdir)/include 
LIBS                    = $(ROOTLIBS)
CLEANFILES              = *Cint.cxx *Cint.h *~ core 

%Cint.cxx:%Inc.h %LinkDef.h
        $(ROOTCINT) -f $@ -c $(CINTINCLUDES) $^  

.fi
.RE
where you should substitute \fBFoo\fR with whatever, and list the
appropiate source files in the \fB_SOURCES\fR variable. In you
\ficonfigure.in\fR file, put:
.RS
.nf
AC_PROG_CC
AC_PROG_CXX
AC_ROOT
AM_DISABLE_STATIC
AM_PROG_LIBTOOL
.fi
.RE
along with any other macros you may need. 

.SH OPTIONS 
.TP 
.B --help
Gives a short list of options avaliable, and exit
.TP
.B --version 
Report the version number of installed \fBROOT\fR, and exit. 
.TP
.BI --prefix =<prefix>
If no arguments is given, reports where \fBROOT\fR is installed. With
an argument of =\fI<prefix>\fR, set the base of the subsequent options
to \fI<prefix>\fR. If \fB--exec-prefix\fR is passedwith an argument,
that argument overrides the argument given to \fB--prefix\fR for the
library path. 
.TP
.BI --exec-prefix =<prefix>
If no argument is given, report where the libraries are installed. If
an argument is given, use that as the installation base directory for
the libraries. This option does not affect the include path. 
.TP
.B --libs
Output a line suitable for linking a program agains the \fBROOT\fR
libraries. No graphics libraries are output. 
.TP
.B --glibs
As above, but also output for the graphics libraries. 
.TP
.B --cflags
Output a line suitable for compiling a source file againd the
\fBROOT\fR header (class declararion) files. 
.TP
.B --new 
Output a line suitable for linking against the \fBROOT\fR library
.TP
.B --nonew 
Compatiblity option. Does nothing. 
\fBlibNew\fR. This option \fImust\fR be given before options
\fB--libs\fR and \fB--glibs\fR. 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIroot\fR(1), \fIroot-cint\fR(1)
.PP
See also the \fBROOT\fR webpages:
.US http://root.cern.ch
\fIhttp://root.cern.ch\fR
.UE
.SH "ORIGINAL AUTHORS"
The ROOT team (see web page above):
.RS
\fBRene Brun\fR and \fBFons Rademakers\fR
.RE
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
\fBROOT\fR Software Terms and Conditions
.PP
The authors hereby grant permission to use, copy, and distribute this
software and its documentation for any purpose, provided that existing
copyright notices are retained in all copies and that this notice is
included verbatim in any distributions. Additionally, the authors grant
permission to modify this software and its documentation for any purpose,
provided that such modifications are not distributed without the explicit
consent of the authors and that existing copyright notices are retained in
all copies. Users of the software are asked to feed back problems, benefits,
and/or suggestions about the software to the ROOT Development Team
(rootdev@root.cern.ch). Support for this software - fixing of bugs,
incorporation of new features - is done on a best effort basis. All bug
fixes and enhancements will be made available under the same terms and
conditions as the original software,
.PP
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR DISTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY FOR
DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT
OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, ITS DOCUMENTATION, OR ANY DERIVATIVES THEREOF,
EVEN IF THE AUTHORS HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.PP
THE AUTHORS AND DISTRIBUTORS SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIM ANY WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. THIS SOFTWARE IS
PROVIDED ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, AND THE AUTHORS AND DISTRIBUTORS HAVE NO
OBLIGATION TO PROVIDE MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT, UPDATES, ENHANCEMENTS, OR
MODIFICATIONS.
.SH AUTHOR 
This manual page was written by Christian Holm Christensen
<cholm@nbi.dk>, for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by
others). 
.\"
.\" $Log: root-config.1,v $
.\" Revision 1.1  2000/12/08 17:41:01  rdm
.\" man pages of all ROOT executables provided by Christian Holm.
.\"
.\"
