.\" 
.\" $Id: root.1,v 1.1 2000/12/08 17:41:01 rdm Exp $
.\" 
.TH ROOT 1 "Version 3" "ROOT"
.\" NAME should be all caps, SECTION should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parms are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.SH NAME
root \- Interpretor of C++ for the ROOT framework
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B root
.I "[options] files ..."
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBR\fROOTs \fBO\fRbject-\fBO\fRriented \fBT\fRechnologies. 
.PP
.B root
is a interactive interpretor of C++ code. It uses the 
.B ROOT
framework. For more information on 
.BR ROOT , 
please refer to
.US   http://root.cern.ch
\fIhttp://root.cern.ch\fR.
.UE
An extensive \fIUsers Guide\fR is available from that site. 
.SH OPTIONS
.B \-?
Show summary of options. 
.TP 
.B -b
Run in batch mode without graphics
.TP 
.B -n
Do not execute logon and logoff macros as specified in 
.B .rootrc
.TP 
.B -q
Exit after processing command line macro files
.TP 
.B -l
Do not show splash screen
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SB
\fIrootcint\fR(1), \fIcint\fR(1), \fIroot-config\fR(1),
\fIrootd\fR(1), \fIh2root\fR(1), \fIg2root\fR(1) 
.PP
.SE
For extensive documentation on the \fBROOT\fR system, see
.UR http://root.cern.ch
\fIhttp://root.cern.ch\fR
.UE
.PP
A \fBUsers Guide\fR is avaliable from 
.UR http://root.cern.ch/root/UsersGuide.html
\fIhttp://root.cern.ch/root/UsersGuide.html\fR
.UE
.PP 
The classes of ROOT are all documented on 
.UR http://root.cern.ch/root/html/ClassIndex.html
\fIhttp://root.cern.ch/root/html/ClassIndex.html\fR
.UE
.SH FILES
.TP
<\fIetcdir\fR>/\fBsystem.rootrc\fR 
System-wide configuration file. <\fIetcdir\fR> either ROOTSYS, or
something like \fB/etc/root\fR
.TP
<\fIlibdir\fR>/*\fR 
.B ROOT 
C++ class libraries. <\fIlibdir\fR> is either ROOTSYS/lib or something
like \fB/usr/lib/root\fR.
.TP
<\fIincdir\fR>/*\fR 
The header files for the 
.B ROOT 
C++ class libraries. <\fIincdir\fR> is either ROOTSYS/include or
something like \fB/usr/include/root\fR.
.TP
\fB~/.rootrc\fR, \fB./.rootrc\fR
User configuration file
.SH "ORIGINAL AUTHORS"
The ROOT team (see web page above):
.RS
.B Rene Brun 
and
.B Fons Rademakers
.RE
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
ROOT Software Terms and Conditions
.PP
The authors hereby grant permission to use, copy, and distribute this
software and its documentation for any purpose, provided that existing
copyright notices are retained in all copies and that this notice is
included verbatim in any distributions. Additionally, the authors grant
permission to modify this software and its documentation for any purpose,
provided that such modifications are not distributed without the explicit
consent of the authors and that existing copyright notices are retained in
all copies. Users of the software are asked to feed back problems, benefits,
and/or suggestions about the software to the ROOT Development Team
(rootdev@root.cern.ch). Support for this software - fixing of bugs,
incorporation of new features - is done on a best effort basis. All bug
fixes and enhancements will be made available under the same terms and
conditions as the original software,
.PP
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR DISTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY FOR
DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT
OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, ITS DOCUMENTATION, OR ANY DERIVATIVES THEREOF,
EVEN IF THE AUTHORS HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.PP
THE AUTHORS AND DISTRIBUTORS SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIM ANY WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. THIS SOFTWARE IS
PROVIDED ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, AND THE AUTHORS AND DISTRIBUTORS HAVE NO
OBLIGATION TO PROVIDE MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT, UPDATES, ENHANCEMENTS, OR
MODIFICATIONS.
.SH AUTHOR 
This manual page was written by Christian Holm Christensen
<cholm@nbi.dk>, for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by
others). 
.\" 
.\" $Log: root.1,v $
.\" Revision 1.1  2000/12/08 17:41:01  rdm
.\" man pages of all ROOT executables provided by Christian Holm.
.\"
.\" 
