.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, 1, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH PREPAREHISTFACTORY 1 "DEC. 2010"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
prepareHistFactory \- create a working directory for the HistFactory tools
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B prepareHistFactory [dir_name]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B prepareHistFactory
is a simple script that prepares a working area (and creates the directory
dir_name if specified).
Within the directory dir_name, it creates a results/, data/, and config/ directory relative to the given path.
It also copies the HistFactorySchema.dtd and example XML files into
the config/ directory.  Additionally, it copies a root file into the data/
directory for use with the examples.
.br.
Once this is done, one is ready to run the example
.B hist2workspace input.xml
or edit the XML files for a new project.
.SH "ORIGINAL AUTHORS"
.RS
.B Dominique Tardif
 and
.B Kyle Cranmer
.RE
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as
published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the
License, or (at your option) any later version.
.P
This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
Lesser General Public License for more details.
.P
You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA

