.PU
.TH ARRAY 3 
.SH NAME
array.h \- Array and complex calculation library for cint

.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
#include <array.h>

array   x=array(double start,double stop,int ndat);

carray  y=carray(double real,double imag,int ndat);

complex c=complex(double real,double imag=0);

arrayostream aos=arrayostream(char *filename);

arrayistream ais=arrayistream(char *filename);

graphbuf buffer;

.SH DESCRIPTION
 <array.h> is header file for a array, complex and complex array calculation
library for CINT.  

.B Declaration
 Array,carray and complex type object declaration can be done using 
appropriate constructors. 'array' is an array of double, 'carray' is an array
of complex, and 'complex' is a complex number type.

.nf
	array   x=array(double start,double stop,int npoint);   
	carray  y=carray(double real,double, imag,int npoint);
	complex j=complex(double real, double imag);
.fi

.B Operation
 +,-,*,/ operators can be used to above types and combination of above types
and double.  Types are automatically promoted to appropriate types.
For example,

.nf
	y = x*j+1.4142 ;  // carray = array*complex+double;
.fi

.B Graphical plot
 Graphical plot can be done by redirecting array or carray object to
a predefined ostream 'plot'. Title of the data can be optionally given
by string. '\\n' is needed at the end. For example,

.nf
        plot << x << y << "\\n";

        plot << "title of graph"
             << x  << "xunit"           << xmin >> xmax << LOG
             << y1 << "name of y1 data" << ymin >> ymax << LOG
             << y2 << "name of y2 data"  // multiple y axis data(optional)
             << y3 << "name of y3 data"  //
             << "yunit\\n" ;             // must end with \\n
.fi

.B Output to CSV (Comma Separated Value)
 You can also output value of arrays in CVS(Comma Separated Value) and let
Microsoft Excel read it. 

.nf
        // output CSV to stdout
        csv << x << y << "\\n";

        // output CSV to a file
        arrayostream csvf("outfile.csv",1);
        csvf << "title of graph"
             << x  << "xunit"           << xmin >> xmax << LOG
             << y1 << "name of y1 data" << ymin >> ymax << LOG
             << y2 << "name of y2 data"  // multiple y axis data(optional)
             << y3 << "name of y3 data"  //
             << "yunit\\n" ;             // must end with \\n
.fi


.B graphbuf
 Graphbuf is a buffer to store graphical plot data.

.nf
	array x=array(0,10,100),y1,y2;
	graphbuf buf;

        buf  << "title of graph"
             << x  << "xunit"           << xmin >> xmax << LOG
             << y1 << "name of y1 data" << ymin >> ymax << LOG
             << "yunit\\n" ;  // store data to 'buf'

	plot << buf; // plot same data as above

	buf >> x >> y2 >> '\\n'; // read data back to array
.fi


.B File I/O
 If you use 'arraycout' instead of 'plot', you can print out the data to 
standard output.
If you want to store/load the data to/from a file, store data into graphbuf
and redirect it/out to arrayostream/arrayistream.

.nf
        // store x,c,y data to a file "data.d"
	graphbuf bufout;
	bufout << "title" << x << c << y << '\\n';
        arrayostream("data.d") << bufout;

        // load from "data.d"
	graphbuf bufin;
        arrayistream("data.d") >> bufin;
        bufin >> x >> c >> y >> '\\n';
.fi

.B Subarray
 Reference to subarray can be done by subarray(array& c,int offset,int ndat)
function. The subarray() function can only be used as rvalue.
Assignment to subarray can be done by array::sub(int offset,int ndat)
member function. array::sub() can only be used as lvalue.

.nf
        array x(0,1e-6,1024), y;
        y.sub(50,100) = subarray(x,75,125) + subarray(x,100,150);
.fi

.B FFT
 Following FFT library can be used if <fft.h> is also included.

.nf
  fft << (array)time << (array)in >> (array)freq >> (carray)o1 >> \'\\n\';
  fft << (array)time << (carray)in >> (array)freq >> (carray)o1 >> \'\\n\';
  ifft << (array)freq << (carray)in >> (array)time >> (array)o1 >> \'\\n\';
  ifft << (array)freq << (carray)in >> (array)time >> (carray)o1 >> \'\\n\';
  spectrum << (array)time << (array)in >> (array)freq >> (array)o1>>\'\\n\';
  cepstrum << (array)time << (array)in >> (array)freq >> (array)o1>>\'\\n\';
  array conv(array& a,array& b);  // convolution
.fi

.SH COMPATIBILITY
	HP-UX, Linux
.SH SEE ALSO
	cint(1),fft.h(3)
.SH AUTHOR
Masaharu Goto

Copyright (c) 1995~1999 Hewlett-Packard Japan
