.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.TH CINT 1 "February  3, 2001"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.SH NAME
cint \- C/C++ interpreter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cint
<[options]> <[sourcefiles]|[suboption]> <[arguments]>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cint
is a C/C++ interpreter. About 95% of ANSI C and 90% of C++ features
are covered. (Data abstraction, class inheritance, virtual function,
function and operator overloading, default parameters, templates,
etc...)  Cint has a source code debugger for interpreted source code
and it has sufficient capability for debugging a C++ script.
.SH CINT AND MAKECINT
Cint can be used just as it is, but it is recommended to use makecint.
Makecint can encapsulate native C/C++ objects into Cint as precompiled
libraries.  User defined precompiled objects can be accessed from the
interpreter and a user application can invoke the C/C++ interpreter as
interactive interface. It provides a seamless compiler/interpreter
scripting environment. Precompiled libraries can be dynamically
loaded/unloaded if they are configured as Dynamic Link Library
(DLL). See also makecint(1).
.SH OPTIONS
(*) : used only with makecint or -c option
.TP
.B \-A
ANSI C++ mode(default)
.br
Handles given file as C++, regardless of file extension. Otherwise, \.c
files are handled as C and \.cxx, \.C and \.cpp files are handled
as C++.
.TP
.B \-b BREAKPOINT
Set break point
.br
Set break point in source file. Break point can be specified by either
line number or function name. Use -f option to specify a source file
that you want to set break point.
.nf
   -b [line]
   -b [funcname]
   -b [classname]::[funcname]
.fi
.TP
.B \-c \-1 (*)
Make C++ precompiled interface method files
.br
Cint creates interface method source file. Cint reads C++ header file and 
analyzes interface that is exported to the interpreter. The information is
then compiled into an interface method source file which can be compiled
and lined with user code.
Default name for the interface method source/header file is G__cpplink.C 
and G__cpplink.h.
-c option must be given after -n, -N, -w and -z option if used simultaneously.
Normally, -c-1 option is used within the 'makecint' tool. In that case, a
user does not need to know the detail.
.TP
.B \-c \-2 (*)
Make C precompiled interface method files
.br
Cint creates interface method source file. Cint reads C header file and 
analyzes interface that is exported to the interpreter. The information is
then compiled into an interface method source file which can be compiled
and lined with user code.
Default name for the interface method source/header file is G__clink.c 
and G__clink.h.
-c option must be given after -n, -N, -w and -z option if used simultaneously.
Normally, -c-1 option is used within the 'makecint' tool. In that case, a
user does not need to know the detail.
.TP
.B \-C
Copy source to $TMPDIR so that src can be changed during cint run
.TP
.B \-d DUMPFILE
Dump function call history
.TP
.B \-D MACRO
Define macro MACRO with the value '1' as its definition.
.TP
.B \-D MACRO=DEFN
Define macro MACRO as DEFN
.TP
.B \-e
Process extern declarations in source file
.TP
.B \-E
Dump core at error
.TP
.B \-f FILE
Set break file
.br
This option is used with -b option when setting break point to a specified
file.
.TP
.B \-F EXPRESSION
Evaluate an EXPRESSION before running interpreted main() function.
.br
This option is normally used for overriding value of global variable after
initialization.
.TP
.B \-G TRACEDMP
Dump execution trace into a file TRACEDMP
.TP
.B \-i
Interactively return undefined symbol value
.TP
.B \-I INCLUDEPATH
Append directory INCLUDEPATH to the list of directories searched for include
files.
.TP
.B \-K
C mode
.br
Handles given file as C, regardless of file extension. Otherwise, \.c
files are handled as C and \.cxx, \.C and \.cpp files are handled
as C++.
.TP
.B \-l DYNAMICLINKLIB
Link dynamic link library (or shared library)
.TP
.B \-n LINKNAME (*)
Specify interface method filename
.br
This option must be used with -c, and must be given before the -c option.
Cint creates an interface method source file as LINKNAME. If omitted,
G__cpplink.C, G__cpplink.h are created for C++, and G__clink.c, G__clink.h
are created for C.
.TP
.B \-N DLL_NAME (*)
Specify DLL interface method name
.br
This option must be used with -c, and must be given before the -c option.
This option changes function name in the interface method source file, 
in order to avoid name conflict. All function names in the interface
method source file are suffixed by DLL_NAME.
.TP
.B \-O [0~5]
Loop compiler on (1~5) off (0). Default is on (4)
.br
Controls bytecode compiler optimization level. In case of problem, it is
safer to run script in a lower optimization level.
.TP
.B \-p
Use preprocessor prior to interpretation
.TP
.B \-q SECURITY
Set security level (default 0)
.TP
.B \-r
Revision and linked function/global info
.TP
.B \-R
Display input file at break point
.TP
.B \-s
Step(-into) execution mode
.TP
.B \-S
Step(-over) execution mode, First stop in main()
.TP
.B \-t
Trace execution mode
.TP
.B \-T
Trace execution mode (from pre-run)
.TP
.B \-u UNDEFOUT (*)
Listup possible undefined typenames
.br
Lists up undefined typenames and output that list into a file UNDEFOUT.
.TP
.B \-U DIR (*)
Directory to disable interface method generation
.br
Interface method generation is surpressed if header file belongs to specified
directory DIR.
.TP
.B \-V (*)
Generate interface method for non-public member
.TP
.B \-v
Bytecode compiler debug mode
.TP
.B \-w [0|1] (*)
Switch between archive library and DLL when creating interface method
source file. This option is needed only for Windows-NT/9x/200x when
cint creates \.DEF file for precompiled library. This option must be
given before -c option.
.TP
.B \-X READLINEDUMPFILE
Execute readline dumpfile
.TP
.B \-x 'main() {...}'
Execute argument as source code
.TP
.B \-Y [0|1]
ignore(1) not ignore(0) std namespace
.br
This option switches 'std' namespace to be used(0) or ignored(1).
.TP
.B \-z PROJECTNAME (*)
Specify project name as PROJECTNAME when making interface method source file.
This option is needed only for Windows-NT/9x/200x when cint creates .DEF file
for precompiled library. This option must be given before -c option.
.TP
.B \-Z [0|1]
Auto loading of standard header files with DLL
.br
This option controls automatic loading of standard header files with DLL.
If -Z1 is given, standard header files included when making interface method
source file are automatically loaded when loading DLL.
.br
.PP
.SH SOURCEFILES
.br
Cint directly accepts C/C++ source file. If you give multiple source
files, main() function must be included in the last one. If source
file is omitted or main() function is not found in given source file,
cint automatically starts interactive interface.  Cint reads source
file on the fly from the file system.  Do not change the active source
files during cint run.
.PP
.SH SUBOPTIONS
.br
(*) : used only with makecint or -c option
Suboptions are options which appears  in  between  source files.
.TP
.B \-A
ANSI C++ mode(default)
.TP
.B \+V
turn on class title comment mode for following source files
.TP
.B \-V
turn off class title comment mode for following source files
.TP
.B \+P
turn on preprocessor for following source files
.TP
.B \-P
turn off preprocessor for following source files
.TP
.B \+STUB (*)
stub function header begin
.TP
.B -STUB (*)
stub function header end

ARGUMENTS
Arguments to main(int argc,char *argv[]) function.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
$ cint
$ cint lib1.c lib2.c source.c
$ cint -S -I../include -DDEBUG source.c
$ cint -x 'main(int argc,char *argv[]){printf("%s\n",argv[1]);}'
$ cint -qlevel1 myprog.C
.fi

.SH DEBUG MODE
Cint starts debug mode at following situations:
.br 
- main() function is not included in the given source file.
.br 
- Step execution mode (-S,-s option)
.br 
- Program reaches to a break point
.br 
- Keyboard interrupt (CTL-C or Break)
.br 
- Explicit call of interactive interface function G__pause().
.br 
- Bus error or segmentation violation occurred.

You can perform step and trace execution, locate as many break points
as you want, look into function/variable/class information tables,
etc...  Use of following debug mode commands enables you to do these
things.  Cint's debug mode can only debug interpreted source code.
You need to use a binary level debugger to debug precompiled library.
Cint can be used with any kind of binary level debugger such as gdb.

cint (C/C++ interpreter) debugger usage:
.nf
Dump:        n [file]  : create new readline dumpfile and start dump
             y [file]  : append readline dump to [file]
             z         : stop readline dump
             < [file]  : execute readline dumpfile
             > [file]  : output redirect to [file]
             2> [file] : error redirect to [file]
             .         : switch command input mode
Help:        ?         : help
             help      : help
             /[keyword] : help information for keyword
Completion:  [nam][Tab] : complete symbol name start with [nam]
             [nam][Tab][Tab] : list up all symbol name start with [nam]]
Shell:       ![shell]  : execute shell command
Source:      v <[line]>: view source code <around [line]>
             V [stack] : view source code in function call stack
             t         : show function call stack
             f [file]  : select file to debug
             T         : turn on/off trace mode for all source
             A [1|0]   : allowing automatic variable on/off
             trace <classname> : turn on trace mode for class
             deltrace <classname> : turn off trace mode for class
             break [classname] : set break point at every [classname]
                                 memberfunc
             delbreak [classname] : turn off memberfunc break point
Evaluation:  p [expr]  : evaluate expression
                          (no declaration/loop/condition)
             s [expr]  : step into expression
                          (no declaration/loop/condition)
             S [expr]  : step over expression
                          (no declaration/loop/condition)
             {[statements]} : evaluate statement (any kind)
             x [file]  : load [file] and evaluate {statements} in the
                         file
             X [file]  : load [file] and execute function [file]
                          (wo extension)
             E <[file]>: open editor and evaluate {statements} in the
                         file
Load/Unload: L [file]  : load [file]
             La [file] : reload all files loaded after [file]
             U [file]  : unload [file]
             C [1|0]   : copy source to $TMPDIR (on/off)
             reset     : reset interpreter environment
             undo      : undo previous declarations
Monitor:     g <[var]> : list global variable
             l <[var]> : list local variable
             proto <[scope]::>[func] : show function prototype
             class <[name]> : show class definition (one level)
             Class <[name]> : show class definition (all level)
             typedef <name> : show typedefs
             function  : show interpreted functions
             macro     : show macro functions
             template  : show templates
             include   : show include paths
             file      : show loaded files
             where     : show current file position
             security  : show security level
             refcount  : reference count control on/off
             garbage   : show garbage collection buffer
             Garbage   : Do garbage collection
             cover [file] : save trace coverage
             return [val] : return undefined symbol value
Run:         S         : step over function/loop
             s         : step into function/loop
             i         : ignore and step over
             c <[line]>: continue <to [line]>
             e         : step out from function
             f [file]  : select file to debug
             b [line]  : set break point
             db [line] : delete break point
             a [assert]: break only if assertion is true
             O [0~4]   : Set bytecode compiler mode
             debug     : bytecode status display on/off
             asmstep   : bytecode step mode on/off
             status    : show bytecode exec flags
             dasm      : disassembler
Quit:        q         : quit cint
             qqq       : really do quit cint
.if

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR makecint (1),
.br
The programs are documented fully in various files under
/usr/share/doc/cint/.
.SH AUTHOR
Masaharu Goto <MXJ02154@niftyserve.or.jp>
.br
Copyright \(co 1995-2000 Masaharu Goto
.br
This manual page was compiled from information in the Cint source
package for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
