.\"
.\" $Id: root-config.1,v 1.5 2005/09/07 10:23:23 rdm Exp $
.\"
.TH GENREFLEX "1" "Version 5" "ROOT"
.SH NAME
genreflex \- Generates the LCG dictionary file for each header file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B genreflex 
.I headerfile1.h 
.RI [ headerfile2.h ] 
.RI [ options ] 
.RI [ "preprocesor options" ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Generates the LCG dictionary file for each header file
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-s\fR \fIfile\fR, \fB\-\-selection_file=\fR\fIfile\fR
Class selection file to specify for which classes the dictionary 
will be generated
Format (XML):
.RS 
.nf 

<lcgdict>
  [<selection>]
    <class [name="classname"] [pattern="wildname"] 
           [file_name="filename"] [file_pattern="wildname"]
           [id="xxxx"] [type="vector"]/>
    <class name="classname" >
      <field name="m_transient" transient="true"/>
      <field name="m_anothertransient" transient="true"/>
      <properties prop1="value1" [prop2="value2"]/>
    </class>
    <function [name="funcname"] [pattern="wildname"] />
    <enum [name="enumname"] [patter="wildname"] />
    <variable [name="varname"] [patter="wildname"] />
  [</selection>]
  <exclusion>
    <class [name="classname"] [pattern="wildname"]>
      <method name="unwanted" />
    </class>
  </exclusion>
  \&...
</lcgdict>

.fi
.RE
See also the section 
.B SELECTION FILE SYNTAX
below.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR \fIfile\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR \fIfile\fR
Output file name. If an existing directory is specified instead of a file,
then a filename will be build using the name of the input file and will
be placed in the given directory. <headerfile>_rflx.cpp
.TP
.B \-\-pool
Generate minimal dictionary required for POOL persistence
.TP
.B \-\-deep
Generate dictionary for all dependend classes
.TP
.BR \-\-split\fR " (OBSOLETE)"
Generate separate file for stub functions. Option sometimes needed on
Windows. 
.TP
.BR \-\-reflex " (OBSOLETE)"
Generate Reflex dictionaries.
.TP
.B \-\-comments
Add end\-of\-line comments in data and functions members as a property
called "comment" 
.TP
.B \-\-no_membertypedefs
Disable the definition of class member \fBtypedefs\fR
.TP
.B \-\-fail_on_warnings
The genreflex command fails (retuns the value 1) if any warning
message is issued 
.TP
.BI \-\-gccxmlpath= path
Path path where the \fBgccxml\fR(1) tool is installed. If not defined
the standard PATH environ variable is used 
.TP
.BI \-c " file\fR, \fI" \-\-capabilities= file
Generate the capabilities file to be used by the SEAL Plugin
Manager. This file lists the names of all classes for which the
reflection is formation is provided. 
.TP
.BI \-\-rootmap= file
Generate the rootmap file to be used by ROOT/CINT. This file lists the
names of all classes for which the reflection is formation is
provided. 
.TP
.BI \-\-rootmap\-lib= library
Library name for the rootmap file.
.TP
.B \-\-debug
Print extra debug information while processing. Keep intermediate
files 
.TP
.B \-\-quiet
No not print informational messages
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print help
.PP
Try "genreflex \fB\-\-help\fR" for more information.
.SH "SELECTION FILE SYNTAX"
.SS <lcgdict>
.TP 
Sub elements: 
.B <selection> <exclusion> <class> <function>
.TP
Attributes: 
none
.P
The root element of the xml file. It has to be present.  
.SS <selection>
.TP
Sub elements: 
.B <class> <function>
.TP
Attributes: 
none
.P
The selection element is only mandatory if the \fB<exclusion>\fR
element is used in the same file. Otherwise all sub-elements of
\fB<lcgdict>\fR are supposed to be included in the dictionary. 
.SS <exclusion>
.TP
Sub elements: 
.B <class> <function>
.TP 
Attributes: 
none
.P
If a 
.B <selection> 
element is present it is also possible to exclude types following the
same patterns as for selection
.SS <class>
.TP
Sub elements: 
.B <field> <properties> <method>
.TP 
Attributes:
.RS 
.TP 
.I name 	
The exact name of the class to be filtered
.I pattern 	
A pattern matching a set of classes
.TP
.I file_name 	
The exact file name to be filtered. All classes contained in the file
will be selected 
.TP
.I file_pattern
A pattern matching a set of files
.TP
.I id 	
The class ID (used for POOL persistence)
.TP
.I type 	
The class type (used for POOL persistence)
.RE
.P
All classes matching the patterns or names in the attributes will be
selected. The 
.IR name ", " pattern ", " file_name ", and " file_pattern
attributes are mutual exclusive. 
.SS <function>
.TP 
Sub elements: 
none
.TP 
Attributes:
.RS
.TP 
.I name
The exact name of the function
.TP
.I pattern
A pattern matching a set of functions
.RE
.P
All function matching the attributes of the function element will be
selected and dictionaries will be created for them. The 
.IR name and pattern
attributes are mutual exclusive. 
.SS <field>
.TP
Sub elements: 
none
.TP
Attributes:
.RS
.TP
.I name
The exact name of the field
.TP
.I transient
If set to true a property (transient/true) will be set for this member
(used for POOL persistence) 
.RE
.P
The 
.B <field> 
element is mainly used for POOL persistence to mark if some of the
data members of a class shall be skipped when the class is written to
a persistent medium 
.SS <method>
.TP 
Sub elements: 
none
.TP 
Attributes:
.RE
.TP
.I name
The name of the method to be excluded
.RE
.P
The 
.B <method> 
element is used to exclude the dictionary generation from classes
which match the given attributes. 

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR root (1), 
.IR rootcint (1),
.IR gccxml (1)
.PP
See also the \fBROOT\fR webpages:
.UR http://root.cern.ch
\fIhttp://root.cern.ch\fR
.UE
.SH "ORIGINAL AUTHORS"
The ROOT team (see web page above):
.RS
\fBRene Brun\fR and \fBFons Rademakers\fR
.RE
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as
published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the
License, or (at your option) any later version.
.P
This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
Lesser General Public License for more details.
.P
You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.SH AUTHOR 
This manual page was written by Christian Holm Christensen
<cholm@nbi.dk>, for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by
others). 
.\"
.\" EOF
.\"
