.\" 
.\" $Id:$
.\"
.TH PQ2-VERIFY 1 "Version 5" "ROOT" 
.\" NAME should be all caps, SECTION should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parms are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.SH NAME
pq2-verify \- Extract the content one or more datasets from a dataset meta-repository based on ROOT files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pq2-verify
[options] dataset
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This manual page documents briefly the
.BR pq2-verify
program.
.PP
.B pq2-verify
is a script invoking the
.B pq2
ROOT application to extract the content one or more datasets from a dataset meta-repository based on ROOT files;
the repository can be accessed via the local file
system or a remote file server daemon or a PROOF facility.
.PP
More details about the underlying 'pq2' application can be found in the man page \fIpq2\fR(1).
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
\fIdataset\fR
Datasets to be analysed; the '*' wild card in the items (in such a case the full string, as shown by pq2-ls,
should be given, e.g. '/default/ganis/h1-set5*'.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Display help information.
.TP 
\fB-k\fR, \fB--keep\fR
Keep the temporary files created during the analysis under $TMPDIR
.TP 
\fB-v\fR
Verbose mode
.TP
\fB-d\fR <\fIdataset\fR>, \fB--dataset\fR=<\fIdataset\fR>
Alternative way to define the datasets to be analyzed
.TP
\fB-o\fR <\fIoptions\fR>
Options for veriying datasets. These allow to control: the subset selection; the pre-processing actions;
and the processing action.
.nf

   Options controlling the file sample:
      A               process all files
      D               process only files marked as staged ('on Disk') (if 'A' is not specified the default
                      is to process only files marked as non-staged)

   Options controlling the pre-processing actions done on the selected sample or the complementary:
      O               open the files marked as staged when processing only files marked as non-staged
      T               open and touch the files marked as staged when processing only files marked as non-staged
      I               do not check the actual stage status on selected files (by default the stage status
                      is checked)

   Options controlling the action performed on the selected files:
      N               do nothing
      P               open the selected files and extract the meta information
      L               only locate the selected files
      S               issue a stage request for the selected files not yet staged

   Miscellanea
      V               notify the actions

.fi
Not all the combinations of the above options are allowed; an error is printed when an incosistency is found.
.TP
\fB--redir\fR=<\fIredirector\fR
URL to be used to relocate the files.
.TP
\fB-u\fR <\fIserverurl\fR>, \fB--url\fR=<\fIserverurl\fR>
URL of the PROOF master or data server providing the information; for data servers, it must include the directory.
Can also be specified via the environment variables PQ2PROOFURL or PQ2DSSRVURL (see ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES)."
.TP
\fB-t\fR <\fIdir\fR>, \fB--tmpdir\fR=<\fIdir\fR>
Directory for temporary files; defualt is /tmp/<username>.
.SH "RETURN"
The pq2-verify script returns -1 if any error occurs (connection failed; dataset does not exists) and >=0 in
case of success. A return code of 1 indicates that some of the files in the dataset are not yet online (staged);
this can be used to trigger automatic retries in scripts while waiting for stage-in operations.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP
1. Update the 'is-staged' bit for all the files in a dataset
.nf

   $ pq2-verify -o "AN" /default/pippo/mydset
.fi
.TP
2. Issue a locate request for all the files in a dataset
.nf

   $ pq2-verify -o "AL" /default/pippo/mydset
.fi

.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
See \fIsetup-pq2\fR(1).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIpq2\fR(1), \fIsetup-pq2\fR(1), \fIpq2-ls\fR(1), \fIpq2-ls-files\fR(1),
\fIpq2-ls-files-server\fR(1), \fIpq2-info-server\fR(1),
\fIpq2-ana-dist\fR(1), \fIpq2-put\fR(1), \fIpq2-rm\fR(1), \fIpq2-cache\fR(1)
.PP
For more information on the \fBROOT\fR system, please refer to 
.UR http://root.cern.ch/
.I http://root.cern.ch
.UE
.SH "ORIGINAL AUTHORS"
Gerardo Ganis for the ROOT team.
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as
published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the
License, or (at your option) any later version.
.P
This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
Lesser General Public License for more details.
.P
You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.SH AUTHOR 
This manual page was originally written by Gerardo Ganis <gerardo.ganis@cern.ch>, for ROOT version 5.
