.\"
.\" $Id: rootcint.1,v 1.2 2005/03/21 21:42:21 rdm Exp $
.\"
.TH ROOTCINT 1 "Version 3" "ROOT"
.\" NAME should be all caps, SECTION should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parms are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.SH NAME
rootcint \- ROOT Dictionary generator 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fBrootcint \fIheader_file\fR[+][\-][!] ... [LinkDef.h] > \fIdict_file\fR 
\fBrootcint \fR[\-f] \fIdict_file \fR[\-c] \fIheader_file\fR[+][\-][!] ... [LinkDef.h]
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION" 
The 
.B rootcint 
program generates the 
.IR Streamer() , 
.I TBuffer &operator>>() 
and 
.I ShowMembers() 
methods for 
.B ROOT 
classes, i.e. classes using the
.I ClassDef 
and 
.I ClassImp 
macros. 
In addition 
.B rootcint 
can also generate the 
.B CINT 
dictionaries needed in order to get access to ones classes via the
interpreter.  
.PP 
.B rootcint 
can be used like: 
.sp 1 
.RS
.nf
.B rootcint TAttAxis.h[-][!] ... [LinkDef.h] > AxisGen.C
.fi
.RE
or 
.RS
.nf
.B rootcint [-f] [AxDict.C] [-c] TAttAxis.h[-][!] ... [LinkDef.h]
.fi
.RE
.sp 1
The difference between the two is that in the first case only the
.I  Streamer() 
and 
.I ShowMembers() 
methods are generated while in the latter case a  complete compileable
file is generated (including the include statements). The first method
also allows the output to be appended to an already existing file
(using 
.B >>
). The optional minus behind the include file name tells 
.B rootcint 
to not generate the 
.B Streamer() 
method. A custom method must be provided by the user in that
case. When using option 
.B -c 
also the interpreter method interface stubs will be written to the
output file (
.B AxDict.C 
in the above case).  
By default the output file will not be overwritten if it exists. Use
the 
.B -f (force) 
option to overwite the output file.  
.PP 
Before specifying the first header file one can also add include file
directories to be searched and preprocessor defines, like:  
.sp 1 
.RS
.nf
.B \-I$../include -DDebug
.fi
.RE
.sp 1
The (optional) file 
.B LinkDef.h 
looks like: 
.sp 1 
.RS
.nf
#ifdef __CINT__

#pragma link off all globals;
#pragma link off all classes;
#pragma link off all functions;

#pragma link C++ class TAxis;
#pragma link C++ class TAttAxis-;
#pragma link C++ class TArrayC-!;

#pragma link C++ function StrDup;
#pragma link C++ function operator+(const TString&,const TString&);

#pragma link C++ global gROOT;
#pragma link C++ global gEnv;

#pragma link C++ enum EMessageTypes;

#endif
.fi 
.RE
.sp 1
This file tells 
.B rootcint 
for which classes the method interface stubs should be generated. A
trailing `\-' in the class name tells 
.B rootcint 
to not generate the 
.B Streamer() 
method. This is necessary for those classes that need a customized 
.B Streamer() 
method. A trailing `!' in the class name tells 
.B rootcint
to not generate the 
.B operator>>(TBuffer &b, MyClass *&obj) 
method. This is necessary to be able to write pointers to objects of
classes not inheriting from 
.I TObject. 
When this file is not specified a default version exporting the
classes with the names equal to the include files minus the 
.B .h 
is generated. 
.PP 
.B IMPORTANT: 
.TP
1
.B LinkDef.h 
must be the last argument on the 
.B rootcint command line. 
.TP
2
Note that the 
.B LinkDef 
file name MUST contain the string:
.B LinkDef.h 
or 
.BR linkdef.h , 
i.e. 
.B NA49_LinkDef.h 
is fine just like, 
.BR mylinkdef.h . 
.\" .El
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIroot\fR(1), \fIcint\fR(1)
.PP
.B rootcint 
is  documented fully on  
.UR http://root.cern.ch/root/RootCintMan.html
.I ROOT web-site
.UE
.SH "ORIGINAL AUTHORS"
The ROOT team (see web page above):
.RS
.B Rene Brun 
and
.B Fons Rademakers
.RE
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as
published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the
License, or (at your option) any later version.
.P
This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
Lesser General Public License for more details.
.P
You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.SH AUTHOR 
This manual page was written by Christian Holm Christensen
<cholm@nbi.dk>, for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by
others). 
.\"
.\" $Log: rootcint.1,v $
.\" Revision 1.2  2005/03/21 21:42:21  rdm
.\" From Christian Holm Christensen:
.\"       * New Debian and RedHat rpm packaging scripts.
.\"       * Added a description to `build/package/debian/README.Debian' on
.\"         how to add a new package.   It's not that complicated so it
.\"         should be a simple thing to add a new package, even for some
.\"         with little or no experience with RPMs or DEBs.
.\"       * When searching for the Oracle client libraries, I added the
.\"         directories `/usr/lib/oracle/*/client/lib' and
.\"         `/usr/include/oracle/*/client' - as these are the paths that the
.\"         RPMs install into.
.\"       * I added the packages `root-plugin-krb5' and
.\"         `root-plugin-oracle'.
.\"       * The library `libXMLIO' is in `libroot'.
.\"       * The package `root-plugin-xml' contains the XML parser.
.\"       * I fixed an cosmetic error in `build/misc/root.m4'.  The
.\"         definition of `ROOT_PATH' should be quoted, otherwise aclocal
.\"         will complain.
.\"       * In the top-level `Makefile' I pass an additional argument to
.\"         `makecintdlls' - namely `$(ROOTCINTTMP)'.  In `makecintdlls' I
.\"         use that argument to make the various dictionaries for
.\"         `lib...Dict.so'.   Originally, the script used plain `rootcint'.
.\"         However, as `rootcint' may not be in the path yet, or the one in
.\"         the path may be old, this failed.  Hence, I use what we know is
.\"         there - namely the newly build `rootcint_tmp'.  BTW, what are
.\"         these shared libraries, and where do they belong?  I guess they
.\"         are specific to ROOT, and not used by plain `CINT'.  For now, I
.\"         put them in `libroot'.
.\"       *  Made the two `virtual' packages `root-db-client' - provided the
.\"         DB plugins, and `root-fitter' provided by `root-plugin-minuit'
.\"         and `root-plugin-fumili'.  Note, the virtual package
.\"         `root-file-server' provided by `root-rootd' and `root-xrootd'
.\"         already existed in the previous patch.
.\"       * Note, I added the directory `build/package/debian/po' which is
.\"         for translations of DebConf templates.  DebConf is Debians very
.\"         advanced package configuration interface.   It presents the user
.\"         with a set of questions in some sort of `GUI' based on how much
.\"         the user would like to change.  These `dialogs' can be
.\"         translated quite easily.  As an example, I translated the
.\"         questions used by the `ttf-root-installer' package into Danish.
.\"         I'm sure someone can translate them into German, French,
.\"         Italien, Spanish, and so on.
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1  2001/08/15 13:30:48  rdm
.\" move man files to new subdir man1. This makes it possible to add
.\" $ROOTSYS/man to MANPATH and have "man root" work.
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1  2000/12/08 17:41:01  rdm
.\" man pages of all ROOT executables provided by Christian Holm.
.\"
.\"
