.\"
.\" $Id: xrd.1,v 1.2 2006/02/28 16:38:23 rdm Exp $
.\"
.TH XRD 1 "Version 3" "ROOT"
.\" NAME should be all caps, SECTION should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parms are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.SH NAME
xrd \- interactive XRootD ftp-like client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xrd
.I  HOST
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B Xrd 
is a 
.BI ftp -like(1) 
tool to interact with an \fBxrootd\fR server. 
.PP
Commands are 
.TP
.BI cd " directory"
Change directory.
.TP
.BI envputint " variable integer"
Set an environment variable \fIvariable\fR to an integer value
\fBinteger\fR. 
.TP
.BI envputstr " variable string"
Set an environment variable \fIvariable\fR to a string value
\fBstring\fR. 
.TP 
.B help
Show interactive help.
.TP
.B exit
Exit the client
.TP
.BI connect " [host:[port]]"
Connect to the specified host.
.TP
.BI dirlist " [directory]"
Lists the contents of the specified directory or current directory if
no argument is given.
.TP
.BI stat " file-or-directory"
Get information on a file or directory. 
.TP
.BI existsfile " file"
Checks if a file exists on the server. 
.TP
.BI existsdir " directory"
Checks if a directory exists on the server. 
.TP
.BI getchecksum " file"
Computes and returns the check sum of a file. 
.TP
.BI isfileonline " file"
Tells if the specified file is online.
.TP
.BI mv " file1 file2"
Moves \fIfile1\fR to \fIfile2\fB on the same server.
.TP
.BI mkdir " directory [user] [group] [other]"
Creates a directory with optional permissions.
.TP
.BI chmod " file-or-directory user group other"
Modifies file permissions.
.TP 
.BI rm " file"
Removes a file.
.TP
.BI rmdir " directory" 
Removes a directory.
.TP 
.BI prepare " file"
Stages a file in.
.TP
.BI cat " file [xrdcp parameters]" 
Outputs a file on standard output using 
.BR xrdcp (1). 
\fIfile\fR can be a \fBroot://\fR
.TP
.BI  cp " file-or-directory file-or-directory [xrdcp parameters]"
Copies a file using \fBxrdcp\fR(1). \fIfile-or-directory\fR are always
relative to the current remote path. Also, they can be \fBroot://\fR URLs
specifying any other host
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.BI \-d LEVEL
Set the debug level
.TP
.BI \-DI "param value"
Set parameter \fIparam\fR to an integer \fIvalue\fR. Override the
default value of an internal \fBXrdClient\fR setting.
.TP
.BI \-DS "param value"
Set parameter \fIparam\fR to a string \fIvalue\fR.  Override the
default value of an internal \fBXrdClient\fR setting.
.TP
.B \-O
Adds some opaque information to any used \fBxrootd\fR url.
.TP
.B \-h
Show help. 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIroot\fR(1), \fIxrootd\fR(1)
.PP
See also the \fBROOT\fR webpages:
.UR http://root.cern.ch
\fIhttp://root.cern.ch\fR
.UE
.SH "ORIGINAL AUTHORS"
Fabrizio Furano
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as
published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the
License, or (at your option) any later version.
.P
This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
Lesser General Public License for more details.
.P
You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.SH AUTHOR 
This manual page was written by Christian Holm Christensen
<cholm@nbi.dk>, for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by
others). 
.\"
.\" EOF
.\"
