.\"
.\" $Id: xrdcp.1,v 1.1 2005/11/21 11:25:37 rdm Exp $
.\"
.TH XRDCP 1 "Version 3" "ROOT"
.\" NAME should be all caps, SECTION should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parms are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.SH NAME
xrdcp \- XRootD utility to copy files to/from nodes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xrdcp
.I  SOURCE
.I  DEST
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B Xrdcp 
is a 
.BI cp -like(1) 
tool to copy files:
.TP
*
\fIFROM\fR an \fBxrootd\fR system \fITO\fR a local file system
.TP
*
\fIFROM\fR an \fBxrootd\fR system \fITO\fR an \fBxrootd\fR system
(even the same) 
.TP
*
\fIFROM\fR a local file system \fITO\fR an \fBxrootd\fR system
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.BI \-d LEVEL
Set the debug level
.TP
.BI \-D "param value"
Set parameter \fIparam\fR to string or integer \fIvalue\fR.
.TP
.B \-np
No progress bar
.TP
.B \-s
Silent mode, no summary or progress bar
.TP
.B \-OS
Adds some opaque information to any \fISOURCE\fR \fBxrootd\fR URL
.TP
.B \-OD
Adds some opaque information to any \fIDEST\fR \fBxrootd\fR URL
.TP
.B \-f
Force overwrite destination.
.TP
.B \-force 
At least one reconnection attempts to retry file up to 1 week, to
block until \fBxrdcp\fR is executed.
.TP
.B \-R
Recursive copy directories.
.SH "PARAMETERS"
Here is the list of the internal parameters of XrdClient, with their meaning.
The parameters names are case sensitive.
.TP
.BR ConnectTimeout " (default: 60)"
The timeout value for connection attempts at the init of an instance.
Any timeout will be internally treated as a recoverable error, and
handled in some way, typically retrying. Note that a connection
attempt may fail before this time.
.TP
.BR RequestTimeout " (default: 60)"
The timeout value for send/receive attempts. Any timeout will be
internally treated as a recoverable error, and handled in some way,
typically auto-redirecting to the first redirector encountered.
.TP
.BR MaxRedirectcount " (default: 255)"
If a client gets redirected or auto-redirected more times than this
number in the last RedirCntTimeout seconds, the pending operation will
be abandoned.
.TP
.BR RedirCntTimeout " (default: 3600)"
See up.
.TP
.BR DebugLevel " (default: 0)"
Verbosity of the printed output.
.br
-1 = no printing at all
.br
0 = print only errors, and a few more.
.br
1 = really basic trace of what's happening
.br
2 = trace of what is the client doing
.br
3 = Ultra-verbose: dump every data exchange
.br
4 = Hyper-verbose: dump everything flowing through sockets
.TP
.BR ReconnectTimeout " (default: 10)"
The timeout value for re-connection attempts. Any timeout will be
internally treated as a recoverable error, and handled in some way,
typically retrying. Note that a connection attempt may fail before
this time. 
.TP
.BR FirstConnectMaxCnt " (default: 150)"
How many times the connection on initialization will be retried, in
the case of error.
.TP
.BR StartGarbageCollectorThread " (default: 1)"
A really paranoid parameter. If set to 0, the physical/logical
connections are no more closed if inactive. 
.TP
.BR GoAsync " (default: 1)"
Choose between the sync/async internal architecture. The sync one is
unable to handle unsolicited responses, and will never be. 
.TP
.BR ReadCacheSize " (default: 4000000)"
The max size of the read cache. One cache per instance. Set to 0 to
disable caching. 
.TP
.BR ReadAheadSize " (default: 800000)"
The size of the blocks requested and populating the cache.
.TP
.BR RedirDomainAllowRE " (default: Internally computed to allow only operations on the local domain.)"
Given a list of \fB|\fR-separated regexps for the domains to ALLOW
REDIR to, match every entry with domain. If NO match is found, deny
access. Only \fB*\fR is allowed in the regexps, and only at the
beginning or the end of the single exprs
.TP
.BR RedirDomainDenyRE " (default: Internally computed to allow only operations on the local domain.)"
Given a list of \fB|\fR-separated regexps for the domains to DENY
REDIR to, match every entry with domain. If ANY match is found, deny
access. Only \fB*\fR is allowed in the regexps, and only at the
beginning or the end of the single exprs
.TP
.BR ConnectDomainAllowRE " (default: Internally computed to allow only operations  on the local domain.)"
Given a list of \fB|\fR-separated regexps for the domains to ALLOW
CONNECT to, match every entry with domain. If NO match is found, deny
access. Only \fB*\fR is allowed in the regexps, and only at the
beginning or the end of the single exprs
.TP
.BR ConnectDomainDenyRE " (default: Internally computed to allow only operations on the local domain.)"
Given a list of \fB|\fR-separated regexps for the domains to DENY
CONNECT to, match every entry with domain. If ANY match is found, deny
access. Only \fB*\fR is allowed in the regexps, and only at the
beginning or the end of the single exprs

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIroot\fR(1), \fIxrootd\fR(1)
.PP
See also the \fBROOT\fR webpages:
.UR http://root.cern.ch
\fIhttp://root.cern.ch\fR
.UE
.SH "ORIGINAL AUTHORS"
G. Ganis
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as
published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the
License, or (at your option) any later version.
.P
This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
Lesser General Public License for more details.
.P
You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.SH AUTHOR 
This manual page was written by Christian Holm Christensen
<cholm@nbi.dk>, for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by
others). 
.\"
.\" EOF
.\"
