.\"
.\" $Id: root-config.1,v 1.4 2005/03/21 21:42:21 rdm Exp $
.\"
.TH XRDGSIPROXY 1 "Version 5" "ROOT"
.\" NAME should be all caps, SECTION should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parms are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.SH NAME
xrdgsiproxy \- Application to manage GSI-like proxies
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xrdgsiproxy
.RB [  -h ] 
.RI [ mode ]
.RI [ options ]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Application to manage GSI-like proxies.
.SH OPTIONS 
.TP 
.B \-h
Gives a short list of options avaliable, and exit
.TP
.I mode
One of \fBinfo\fR, \fBinit\fR, or \fBdestroy\fR (default is
\fBinfo\fR).  \fBinfo\fR  display content of existing proxy file, 
\fBinit\fR create proxy certificate and related proxy file, and 
\fBdestroy\fR delete existing proxy file. 
.TP
.B \-debug
Print more information while running this query (use if something goes
wrong). 
.BI "\-f, \-out " <file>
Non-standard location of proxy file. 
.TP
.BI "\-certdir " <dir>
 Non-standard location of directory with information about known CAs
(\fBinit\fR mode only).
.TP
.BI "\-cert " <file>
 Non-standard location of certificate for which proxies are wanted
(\fBinit\fR mode only).
.TP
.BI "\-key " <file>
 Non-standard location of the private key to be used to sign the proxy
(\fBinit\fR mode only).
.TP
.BI "\-bits " <number>
Strength in bits of the key (default is 512, \fBinit\fR mode only).
.TP
.BI "\-valid " <hh:mm>
Time validity of the proxy certificate. Default is 12:00. 
(\fBinit\fR mode only).
.TP
.BI "\-path-length " <size>
max number of descendent levels below this proxy. (Default is 0,
\fBinit\fR mode only). 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIxrootd\fR(1)
.PP
See also the \fBROOT\fR webpages:
.UR http://root.cern.ch
\fIhttp://root.cern.ch\fR
.UE
.SH "ORIGINAL AUTHORS"
The XRootD team (see web page above):
.RS
G. Ganis. 
.RE
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as
published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the
License, or (at your option) any later version.
.P
This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
Lesser General Public License for more details.
.P
You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.SH AUTHOR 
This manual page was written by Christian Holm Christensen
<cholm@nbi.dk>, for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by
others). 
.\"
.\" EOF
.\"
