.TH xrdcp 1 "8 March 2011"
.SH NAME
xrdcp - copy files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf

\fBxrdcp\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIsource\fR \fIdestination\fR

\fIoptions\fR: [\fB-adler\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIlvl\fR] [\fB-D\fIproxyaddr\fB:\fIproxyport\fR]
[\fB-DS\fR\fIpname stringval\fR] [\fB-DI\fR\fIpname numberval\fR] [\fB-f\fR] [\fB-F\fR]
[\fB-force\fR] [\fB-h\fR] [\fB-md5\fR] [\fB-ML \fIlibname\fR] [\fB-np\fR] [\fB-OD\fR\fIopaqueinfo\fR]
[\fB-OS\fR\fIopaqueinfo\fR] [\fB-P\fR] [\fB-R\fR] [\fB-s\fR] [\fB-S \fInum\fR] [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-version\fR]
[\fB-x\fR] [\fB-X \fIrdr\fR]

.fi
.br
.ad l
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBxrdcp\fR utility copies one or more files from one location to
another. The data source and destination may be a local
or remote file or directory.  Additionally, the data source may also reside
on multiple servers.
.SH OPTIONS
\fB-adler\fR
.RS 5
calculate the adler32 checksum during transfers.
This option may not be available on all platforms.

.RE
\fB-d\fR \fIlvl\fR
.RS 5
debug level: 1 (low), 2 (medium), 3 (high)

.RE
\fB-D\fIproxyaddr\fB:\fIproxyport\fR
.RS 5
use \fIproxyaddr\fB:\fIproxyport\fR as a SOCKS4 proxy. Only numerical addresses are supported.

.RE
\fB-DS\fR\fIpname stringval\fR
.RS 5
set the internal parameter \fIpname\fR with the string value \fIstringval\fR.

.RE
\fB-DI\fR\fIpname numberval\fR
.RS 5
set the internal parameter \fIpname\fR with the numeric value \fInumberval\fR.

.RE
\fB-f\fR   re-create a file if already present.

.HP
\fB-F\fR   set the 'force' flag for xrootd dest file opens (ignore
if file is already opened).

.RE
\fB-force\fR
.RS 5
set 1-min (re)connect attempts to retry for up to 1
week, to block until xrdcp is executed.

.RE
\fB-h\fR   display usage information.

\fB-md5\fR calculate the md5 sum during transfers.

\fB-ML \fIlibname\fR
.RS 5
use \fIlibname\fR as the external monitoring reporting library. The default
name is "XrdCpMonitorClient.so". Make sure it is reachable.

.RE
\fB-np\fR   no progress bar.

\fB-OD\fR\fIopaqueinfo\fR
.RS 5
add opaque information \fIopaqueinfo\fR to any destination xrootd URL.

.RE
\fB-OS\fR\fIopaqueinfo\fR
.RS 5
add opaque information \fIopaqueinfo\fR to any source xrootd URL.
.RE
.HP
\fB-P\fR   request POSC (persist-on-successful-close) processing
     to create a new file.

.RE
\fB-R\fR   recurse through source subdirectories.

\fB-s\fR   silent mode.

\fB-S \fInum\fR
.RS 5
use \fInum\fR additional parallel streams to do the transfer.
The maximum value is 15. The default is 0 (i.e., use only the main stream).

.RE
\fB-v\fR   display summary output.

\fB-version\fR
.RS 5
display version information.
.RE
.HP
\fB-x\fR   activate the Xtreme copy algorithm. Use the source
     hostname to query for additional sources.

.RE
\fB-x \fIrdr\fR
.RS 5
activate the Xtreme copy algorithm. Use \fIrdr\fR as hostname where to query
for additional sources.

.RE
.SH OPERANDS
\fIsource\fR
.RS 5
a local file, a local directory name suffixed by /, or
an xrootd URL in the form of
.ce 1
\fBroot://[\fIuser\fB@\fR]\fIhost[\fB:\fIport\fR]\fB/\fIabsolutepath\fR
The \fIabsolutepath\fR can be a directory. In this case the \fB-R\fR option can be
fully honored only on a standalone server.

.RE
\fIdestination\fR
.RS 5
a local file, a local directory name suffixed by /, or
an xrootd URL in the form
.ce 1
\fBroot://[\fIuser\fB@\fR]\fIhost[\fB:\fIport\fR]\fB/\fIabsolutepath\fR
The \fIabsolutepath\fR can be a directory. In this case the \fB-R\fR option, the
the \fIabsolutepath\fR must be a directory and all files are copied into this
directory.

.RE
.SH EXAMPLES (GENERIC)
.TP
local file upload:
.br
.B $ xrdcp /tmp/myfile root://foo.bar.com//data/myfile
.br
.TP
remote file download:
.br
.B $ xrdcp root://foo.bar.com//data/myfile /tmp/myfile
.br
.TP
remote-remote copy:
.br
.B $ xrdcp root://foo.bar.com//data/myfile1 root://foo.bar.com//data/myfile2
.br
.fi
.br
.ad l
.SH EXAMPLES (CASTOR)
.TP
local file upload to a Castor instance using a specific service class and stager:
.br
.B $ xrdcp /tmp/myfile root://<stagerhost>.cern.ch//castor/cern.ch/data/myfile -ODstagerHost=$STAGE_HOST&svcClass=$STAGE_SVCCLASS
.br
[ you need to escape the '&' in the shell ]
.TP
remote file download from a Castor instance using a specific stager:
.br
.B $ xrdcp /tmp/myfile root://<stagerhost>.cern.ch//castor/cern.ch/data/myfile -OSstagerHost=$STAGE_HOST
.TP
client-proxy copy to-/from- a Castor instance:
.br
.B $ xrdcp
.br
.B root://<stagerA>.cern.ch//castor/cern.ch/data/stagerA/myfile -OSstagerHost=<stagerA>
.br
.B root://<stagerB>.cern.ch//castor/cern.ch/data/stagerB/myfile -ODstagerHost=<stagerA>
.br
.br
[ you cannot copy between stagers using the same logical filename in the castor namespace! ]
.SH NOTES
Documentation for all components associated with \fBxrdcp\fR can be found at
http://xrootd.org/docs.html
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Errors yield an error message and a non-zero exit status.
.SH LICENSE
License terms can be displayed by typing "\fBxrootd -H\fR".
.SH SUPPORT LEVEL
The \fBxrdcp\fR command is supported by the xrootd collaboration.
Contact information can be found at
.ce
http://xrootd.org/contact.html
