documentation/doxygen/mainpage.md, before:

\mainpage %ROOT Reference Documentation

### Introduction
Welcome to %ROOT!

This is the reference manual of the ROOT software tooklit.
You can find in the [reference documentation page](https://root.cern/reference/) pointers to reference manuals for all %ROOT versions.

### Other types of documentation:

- [ROOT Primer](https://root.cern/primer/).
- [ROOT Introductory Course](https://github.com/root-project/training/tree/master/BasicCourse).
- A rich set of %ROOT [tutorials and code examples](https://root.cern/doc/master/group__Tutorials.html) are offered to developers to exercise specific functionality.
- A general [Manual](https://root.cern/manual/) is provided for a more in depth explanation of concepts and functionality available in the %ROOT system.
- A number of topical [User Guides and Manuals](https://root.cern/topical/) for various components of the system.

### Provide your feedback
If you have suggestions about how to improve this documentation, you can let us know:

- With a [PR](https://github.com/root-project/root)
- On the [ROOT Forum](https://root-forum.cern.ch)
- On [our tracker](https://github.com/root-project/root/issues)

Commit message:

Update the ref guide main page (#8887)

documentation/doxygen/mainpage.md, after:

\mainpage %ROOT Reference Documentation

### Introduction
Welcome to %ROOT!

This is the Reference Guide of the ROOT software toolkit.
You can find in the [reference documentation page](https://root.cern/reference/) pointers
to Reference Guides for all %ROOT versions.

### Manuals

- The [Manual](https://root.cern/manual/) provides a more in depth explanation of
  concepts and functionality available in the %ROOT system. It is closely linked to the
  Reference Guide.
- A number of topical [User Guides and Manuals](https://root.cern/topical/) for various
  components of the system.

### Tutorials and courses

- A rich set of %ROOT [tutorials and code examples](https://root.cern/doc/master/group__Tutorials.html) are offered to developers to exercise specific functionality.
- [ROOT Primer](https://root.cern/primer/).
- [ROOT Introductory Course](https://github.com/root-project/training/tree/master/BasicCourse).


### Provide your feedback
If you have suggestions about how to improve this documentation, you can let us know:

- With a [PR](https://github.com/root-project/root)
- On the [ROOT Forum](https://root-forum.cern.ch)
- On [our tracker](https://github.com/root-project/root/issues)
