.\"
.\" $Id: memprobe.1,v 1.2 2005/03/21 21:42:21 rdm Exp $
.\"
.TH MEMPROBE 1 "Version 3" "ROOT"
.\" NAME should be all caps, SECTION should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parms are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.SH NAME
memprobe \- ROOT utility to examine memory usage
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B memprobe
.I "[options]"
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
To activate the memory checker you have to set in the \fB.rootrc\fR
file the resource \fBRoot.MemCheck\fR to 1 (e.g.: \fBRoot.MemCheck:
1\fR) and you  have to link with \fBlibNew.so\fR (e.g. use
\fBroot-config \-\-new \-\-libs\fR) or use \fBrootn.exe\fR.
.PP
When all this is the case you will find at the end of the program
execution a file \fBmemcheck.out\fR in the directory where you started
your ROOT program. Alternatively you can set the resource
\fBRoot.MemCheckFile\fR to the name of a file to which the leak
information will be written. The contents of this \fBmemcheck.out\fR
file can be analyzed and transformed into printable  text via the
\fBmemprobe\fR program (in \fB/usr/bin\fR).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIroot\fR(1)
.PP
See also the \fBROOT\fR webpages:
.UR http://root.cern.ch
\fIhttp://root.cern.ch\fR
.UE
.SH "ORIGINAL AUTHORS"
The ROOT team (see web page above):
.RS
\fBRene Brun\fR and \fBFons Rademakers\fR
.RE
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as
published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the
License, or (at your option) any later version.
.P
This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
Lesser General Public License for more details.
.P
You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Christian Holm Christensen
<cholm@nbi.dk>, for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by
others).
.\"
.\" $Log: memprobe.1,v $
.\" Revision 1.2  2005/03/21 21:42:21  rdm
.\" From Christian Holm Christensen:
.\"       * New Debian and RedHat rpm packaging scripts.
.\"       * Added a description to `build/package/debian/README.Debian' on
.\"         how to add a new package.   It's not that complicated so it
.\"         should be a simple thing to add a new package, even for some
.\"         with little or no experience with RPMs or DEBs.
.\"       * When searching for the Oracle client libraries, I added the
.\"         directories `/usr/lib/oracle/*/client/lib' and
.\"         `/usr/include/oracle/*/client' - as these are the paths that the
.\"         RPMs install into.
.\"       * I added the packages `root-plugin-krb5' and
.\"         `root-plugin-oracle'.
.\"       * The library `libXMLIO' is in `libroot'.
.\"       * The package `root-plugin-xml' contains the XML parser.
.\"       * I fixed an cosmetic error in `build/misc/root.m4'.  The
.\"         definition of `ROOT_PATH' should be quoted, otherwise aclocal
.\"         will complain.
.\"       * In the top-level `Makefile' I pass an additional argument to
.\"         `makecintdlls' - namely `$(ROOTCLINGSTAGE2)'.  In `makecintdlls' I
.\"         use that argument to make the various dictionaries for
.\"         `lib...Dict.so'.   Originally, the script used plain `rootcint'.
.\"         However, as `rootcint' may not be in the path yet, or the one in
.\"         the path may be old, this failed.  Hence, I use what we know is
.\"         there - namely the newly build `rootcint_tmp'.  BTW, what are
.\"         these shared libraries, and where do they belong?  I guess they
.\"         are specific to ROOT, and not used by plain `CINT'.  For now, I
.\"         put them in `libroot'.
.\"       *  Made the two `virtual' packages `root-db-client' - provided the
.\"         DB plugins, and `root-fitter' provided by `root-plugin-minuit'
.\"         and `root-plugin-fumili'.  Note, the virtual package
.\"         `root-file-server' provided by `root-rootd' and `root-xrootd'
.\"         already existed in the previous patch.
.\"       * Note, I added the directory `build/package/debian/po' which is
.\"         for translations of DebConf templates.  DebConf is Debians very
.\"         advanced package configuration interface.   It presents the user
.\"         with a set of questions in some sort of `GUI' based on how much
.\"         the user would like to change.  These `dialogs' can be
.\"         translated quite easily.  As an example, I translated the
.\"         questions used by the `ttf-root-installer' package into Danish.
.\"         I'm sure someone can translate them into German, French,
.\"         Italien, Spanish, and so on.
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1  2002/01/20 14:23:52  rdm
.\" Mega patch by Christian Holm concerning the configure, build and
.\" Debian and RedHat packaging scripts. The configure script has been
.\" rationalized (introduction of two shell functions to find package
.\" headers and libraries). Extensive update of the INSTALL writeup,
.\" including description of all new packages (SapDB, PgSql, etc.).
.\" More options to the root-config script. Man page for memprobe.
.\" Big overhaul of the Debian and RedHat packaging scripts, supporting
.\" the new libraries.
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1  2001/08/15 13:30:48  rdm
.\" move man files to new subdir man1. This makes it possible to add
.\" $ROOTSYS/man to MANPATH and have "man root" work.
.\"
.\" Revision 1.2  2001/04/23 09:10:12  rdm
.\" updates by Christian Holm for making debian and RedHat packages.
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1  2000/12/08 17:41:01  rdm
.\" man pages of all ROOT executables provided by Christian Holm.
.\"
.\"
