.\" 
.\" $Id:$
.\"
.TH PQ2-REDISTRIBUTE 1 "Version 5" "ROOT" 
.\" NAME should be all caps, SECTION should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parms are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.SH NAME
pq2-redistribute \- Execute the file movements as determined by pq2-ana-dist
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pq2-redistribute
[-b backend] -f filemv
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This manual page documents briefly the
.BR pq2-redistribute
program.
.PP
.B pq2-redistribute
is a script executing the file movements as determined by \fIpq2-ana-dist\fR(1) using the specified backend.
Currently only the XROOTD backend is supported (tag 'xrd'; default).
.PP
More details about the input file can be found in the man page \fIpq2-ana-dist\fR(1).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Display help information.
.TP 
\fB--dryrun\fR
Only show the action that should be done (don't execute them).
.TP
\fB-b\fR <\fIbackend\fR>
Tag identifying the backend to be used. Currently only 'xrd' (for XROOTD) is supported.
.TP
\fB-f\fR <\fIfilemv\fR>
File with the file movement directives produced by pq2-ana-dist .
.TP
\fB-r\fR <\fIredirurl\fR>, \fB--redir\fR=<\fIredirurl\fR>
URL of the redirector from where the files should be copied and deleted.
.TP
\fB-t\fR <\fIdir\fR>, \fB--tmpdir\fR=<\fIdir\fR>
Directory for temporary files; default is /tmp/<username>. Thsi is used to store temporary copies of the
files during transfers.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
See \fIsetup-pq2\fR(1).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIpq2\fR(1), \fIpq2-ls\fR(1), \fIpq2-ls-files\fR(1), \fIpq2-ls-files-server\fR(1),
\fIpq2-info-server\fR(1), \fIpq2-ana-dist\fR(1),
\fIpq2-put\fR(1), \fIpq2-verify\fR(1), \fIpq2-rm\fR(1), \fIpq2-cache\fR(1)
.PP
For more information on the \fBROOT\fR system, please refer to 
.UR http://root.cern.ch/
.I http://root.cern.ch
.UE
.SH "ORIGINAL AUTHORS"
Gerardo Ganis for the ROOT team.
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as
published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the
License, or (at your option) any later version.
.P
This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
Lesser General Public License for more details.
.P
You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.SH AUTHOR 
This manual page was originally written by Gerardo Ganis <gerardo.ganis@cern.ch>, for ROOT version 5.
