.\"
.\" $Id: proofserv.1,v 1.3 2006/02/28 16:38:23 rdm Exp $
.\"
.TH PROOFSERV 1 "Version 3" "ROOT"
.\" NAME should be all caps, SECTION should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parms are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.SH NAME
proofserv \- PROOF (The Parallel ROOT Facility)
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Using \fBPROOF\fI (The \fIP\fRarallel \fIROO\fRT \fIF\fRacility) one
can analyze trees in parallel on a cluster of computers. The
\fBPROOF\fR system consists of the \fIproofd\fR(1) from-end program
which is started via \fIinetd\fR(8).
.PP
\fIproofd\fR takes care of user authentication and overlays itself
then with the desired version of the \fIproofserv\fR(1)
executable.
.PP
The \fIproofserv\fR(1) is a basically the same as the \fBROOT\fR
interactive module \fIroot\fR(1), except that it reads its commands
from a socket instead of from the terminal.
.PP
Since it is a remote server it will not do graphics and therefore is
not linked with any graphics libraries (Motif, X11, etc.).
.PP
\fBproofserv\fR is started by the daemon \fBproofd\fR(1) on request by
the user.  It is not a command to be executed by the user directly.
.PP
Note, that if \fBproofserv\fR is passed any arguments, it will use the
\fBlibProofx\fB interface, rather than the standard \fBlibProof\fR
interface.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR proofd (1)
,
.IR root (1)
,
.IR rootd (1)
.PP
More information can be found at the \fBROOT\fR website:
.UR http://root.cern.ch
\fIhttp://root.cern.ch\fB
.UE
.SH "ORIGINAL AUTHORS"
The ROOT team (see web page above):
.RS
\fBRene Brun\fR and \fBFons Rademakers\fR
.RE
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as
published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the
License, or (at your option) any later version.
.P
This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
Lesser General Public License for more details.
.P
You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Christian Holm Christensen
<cholm@nbi.dk>, for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by
others).
.\"
.\" $Log: proofserv.1,v $
.\" Revision 1.3  2006/02/28 16:38:23  rdm
.\" From Christian Holm:
.\" many mods in the Debian and RedHat packaging system to ready ROOT for
.\" inclusion in Debian and RedHat distributions.
.\"
.\" Revision 1.2  2005/09/07 10:23:23  rdm
.\" From Christian Holm:
.\" fixes for Debian packages (due to the license change ROOT can be moved
.\" out of the non-free tree). Also updates in the man pages reflecting the
.\" new license.
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1  2001/08/15 13:30:48  rdm
.\" move man files to new subdir man1. This makes it possible to add
.\" $ROOTSYS/man to MANPATH and have "man root" work.
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1  2000/12/08 17:41:01  rdm
.\" man pages of all ROOT executables provided by Christian Holm.
.\"
.\"
