.\" 
.\" $Id: root.1,v 1.1 2001/08/15 13:30:48 rdm Exp $
.\" 
.TH ROOTA 1 "Version 3" "ROOT"
.\" NAME should be all caps, SECTION should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parms are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.SH NAME
roota \- Interpretor of C++ for the ROOT framework
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B roota
.I "[options] files ..."
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBR\fROOTs \fBO\fRbject-\fBO\fRriented \fBT\fRechnologies. 
.PP
.B root
is a interactive interpretor of C++ code. It uses the 
.B ROOT
framework. For more information on 
.BR ROOT , 
please refer to
.UR   http://root.cern.ch
\fIhttp://root.cern.ch\fR.
.UE
An extensive \fIUsers Guide\fR is available from that site. 
.SH OPTIONS
.B \-?
Show summary of options. 
.TP 
.B -b
Run in batch mode without graphics
.TP 
.B -n
Do not execute logon and logoff macros as specified in 
.B .rootrc
.TP 
.B -q
Exit after processing command line macro files
.TP 
.B -l
Do not show splash screen
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SB
\fIrootcint\fR(1), \fIcint\fR(1), \fIroot-config\fR(1),
\fIrootd\fR(1), \fIh2root\fR(1), \fIg2root\fR(1), \fIroot\fR(1) 
.PP
.IP *
For extensive documentation on the \fBROOT\fR system, see
.UR http://root.cern.ch
\fIROOT web-site\fR
.UE
.IP *
A \fBUsers Guide\fR is avaliable from 
.UR http://root.cern.ch/root/UsersGuide.html
\fIthe ROOT website\fR
.UE
.IP *
The classes of ROOT are all documented by the automatic documentation
system and is available 
.UR http://root.cern.ch/root/html/ClassIndex.html
\fIonline\fR.
.UE
.SH FILES
.TP
<\fIetcdir\fR>/\fBsystem.rootrc\fR 
System-wide configuration file. <\fIetcdir\fR> either ROOTSYS, or
something like \fB/etc/root\fR
.TP
<\fIlibdir\fR>/*\fR 
.B ROOT 
C++ class libraries. <\fIlibdir\fR> is either ROOTSYS/lib or something
like \fB/usr/lib/root\fR.
.TP
<\fIincdir\fR>/*\fR 
The header files for the 
.B ROOT 
C++ class libraries. <\fIincdir\fR> is either ROOTSYS/include or
something like \fB/usr/include/root\fR.
.TP
\fB~/.rootrc\fR, \fB./.rootrc\fR
User configuration file
.SH "ORIGINAL AUTHORS"
The ROOT team (see web page above):
.RS
.B Rene Brun 
and
.B Fons Rademakers
.RE
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as
published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the
License, or (at your option) any later version.
.P
This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
Lesser General Public License for more details.
.P
You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.SH AUTHOR 
This manual page was written by Christian Holm Christensen
<cholm@nbi.dk>, for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by
others). 
.\" 
.\" $Log: root.1,v $
.\" Revision 1.1  2001/08/15 13:30:48  rdm
.\" move man files to new subdir man1. This makes it possible to add
.\" $ROOTSYS/man to MANPATH and have "man root" work.
.\"
.\" Revision 1.2  2001/04/23 09:10:12  rdm
.\" updates by Christian Holm for making debian and RedHat packages.
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1  2000/12/08 17:41:01  rdm
.\" man pages of all ROOT executables provided by Christian Holm.
.\"
.\" 
