.\"
.\" $Id: root.1,v 1.1 2001/08/15 13:30:48 rdm Exp $
.\"
.TH ROOT 1 "Version 6" "ROOT"
.\" NAME should be all caps, SECTION should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parms are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.SH NAME
root \- Interpreter of C++ for the ROOT framework
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY root
.OP options
.OP -e 'expression'
.RI [ datafile\~ .\|.\|.]
.RI [ macrofile\~ .\|.\|.]
.SY root
.RI macrofile.C
.SY root
.RI macrofile.C(arguments\~.\|.\|.)
.SY root
.RI macrofile.C(\\\(dqstring\~arguments\\\(dq)
.SY root
.RI macrofile.C+
.SY root
.RI macrofile.C++
.SY root
.RI macrofile.C+g
.SY root
.RI macrofile.C+O
.YS
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBR\fROOTs \fBO\fRbject-\fBO\fRriented \fBT\fRechnologies.
.PP
.B root
is an interactive interpreter of C++ code. It uses the
.B ROOT
framework. For more information on
.BR ROOT ,
please refer to
.UR http://root.cern.ch
.UE .
.PP
An extensive \fIUsers Guide\fR is available from that site (see below).
.SH OPTIONS
.B \-?, -h, --help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B -b
Run in batch mode without graphics
.TP
.B -e
Execute the command passed between single quotes
.TP
.B -n
Do not execute logon and logoff macros as specified in
.B .rootrc
.TP
.B --notebook
execute ROOT notebook
.TP
.B -t
enable thread-safety and implicit multi-threading (IMT)
.TP
.B -q
Exit after processing command line macro files
.TP
.B -l
Do not show splash screen
.PP
\fIData files\fR are opened and accessible in root as \fI_file0\fR, \fI_file1\fR ...
.PP
\fIMacro files\fR are either intrepreted (filename provided alone) or compiled (with + added to the filename).
Afterwards the function with the same name as the filename (without extension) in the macro file is executed (eg. \fIvoid macro()\fR in a file \fImacro.C\fR).
.PP
Compilation is done on-demand if the macro is newer than a previously generated shared library. Two plus signs (macro.C++) force a recompilation. Adding \fIO\fR after a plus results in an optimised build, adding \fIg\fR adds debug symbols (eg. \fImacro.C+Og\fR).
.PP
Macro files, data files and \fI-e\fR expressions are processed in the order in which they are provided. If a macro relies on the presence of \fI_file0\fR, then root should be called with \fIroot data.root macro.C\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SB
\fIrootcling\fR(1), \fIcling\fR(1), \fIroot-config\fR(1),
\fIrootd\fR(1), \fIh2root\fR(1), \fIg2root\fR(1)
.PP
For extensive documentation on the \fBROOT\fR system, see
.UR http://root.cern.ch
.UE .
.PP
A \fBUsers Guide\fR is available at
.UR http://root.cern.ch/root/htmldoc/guides/users-guide/ROOTUsersGuide.html
.UE .
.PP
The classes of ROOT are all documented by the automatic documentation
system, and is available at
.UR https://root.cern/doc/master/annotated.html
.UE .
.PP
Questions and support are provided in
.UR https://root-forum.cern.ch/
the root forum
.UE ,
bugs can be reported
.UR https://sft.its.cern.ch/jira/projects/ROOT/issues
on jira
.UE
and pull requests can be submitted
.UR https://github.com/root-project/root
on github
.UE .
.SH FILES
.TP
<\fIetcdir\fR>/\fBsystem.rootrc\fR
System-wide configuration file. <\fIetcdir\fR> either $ROOTSYS, or
something like \fB/etc/root\fR
.TP
<\fIlibdir\fR>/*\fR
.B ROOT
C++ class libraries. <\fIlibdir\fR> is either $ROOTSYS/lib or something
like \fB/usr/lib/root\fR.
.TP
<\fIincdir\fR>/*\fR
The header files for the
.B ROOT
C++ class libraries. <\fIincdir\fR> is either $ROOTSYS/include or
something like \fB/usr/include/root\fR.
.TP
\fB~/.rootrc\fR, \fB./.rootrc\fR
User configuration file
.SH "ORIGINAL AUTHORS"
The ROOT team (see web page above):
.RS
.B Rene Brun
and
.B Fons Rademakers
.RE
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as
published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the
License, or (at your option) any later version.
.P
This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
Lesser General Public License for more details.
.P
You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Christian Holm Christensen
<cholm@nbi.dk>, for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by
others).
.\"
.\" $Log: root.1,v $
.\" Revision 1.1  2001/08/15 13:30:48  rdm
.\" move man files to new subdir man1. This makes it possible to add
.\" $ROOTSYS/man to MANPATH and have "man root" work.
.\"
.\" Revision 1.2  2001/04/23 09:10:12  rdm
.\" updates by Christian Holm for making debian and RedHat packages.
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1  2000/12/08 17:41:01  rdm
.\" man pages of all ROOT executables provided by Christian Holm.
.\"
.\"
