.\"
.\" $Id:$
.\"
.TH SETUP-PQ2 1 "Version 5" "ROOT"
.\" NAME should be all caps, SECTION should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parms are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.SH NAME
setup-pq2 \- Script defining the environment for the PQ2 tools
.SH SYNOPSIS
source
.B <path>/<to>/setup-pq2
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This manual page documents briefly the
.BR setup-pq2
script.
.PP
.B setup-pq2
is a script containing the definition of the environment variable used by the PQ2 tools.
The script contains the templates both or bash-like and csh-like shells.
Before sourcing this script it is advised to source <root_sys>/bin.thisroot.sh (or .csh,
for csh-like shell): this properly defines the ROOT settings, including the path for these
man pages.

More details about the underlying 'pq2' application can be found in the man page \fIpq2\fR(1).
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES CONTROLLING THE BEHAVIOUR OF PQ2"
The following environment variables may be used to control the behaviour of the PQ2 tools:
.TP
PATH
Add the path to the PQ2 scripts to the execution path so that they are picked-up automatically.
.TP
PQ2DSSRVURL
Path to the dataset repository when working via a local or remote file system; the value specified here is
superseeded by '-u srvurl'; the path must contain the full directory spefication. To test the goodness of the
path run gSystem->AccessPathName("$PQ2DSSRVURL", kReadPermissions) in a ROOT shell: this command will return
0 is the path is good. The PQ2DSSRVURL settings are superseeded by '-u srvurl'. If not specified, PQ2DSSRVURL defaults
to PQ2PROOFURL (see below).
.TP
PQ2PROOFURL
URL of the PROOF master connected to the dataset repository when working with PROOF server (i.e. the entry point of the
PROOF cluster). To test the goodness of the url try to pen a PROOF session in ROOT shell with
TProof::Open("$PQ2PROOFURL", "masteronly").
.TP
PROOFURL
Same as PQ2PROOFURL but deprecated.
.TP
DATASETCACHE
Controls the use of the cache when working via a remote file system; set to 'no' to disable the cache; by default
the cache is enabled.
.TP
DATASETLOCALCACHEDIR
Location of the local cache the default is a path derived from $PQ2DSSRVURL (replacemente of '/' and ':' with %) and
created under $TMPDIR, e.g. for PQ2DSSRVURL set to root://alicecaf.cern.ch:11094//dataset-xpd, the default cache
directory is /tmp/<user>/dataset.cache/root%%%alicecaf.cern.ch%11094%%dataset-xpd .
.TP
PQ2GROUP
Group to be used to initialize the dataset manager instance when working via a local or remote file system;
the default is an empty string, which results in 'default'.
.TP
PQ2USER
User to be used to initialize the dataset manager instance when working via a local or remote file system;
the default is an empty string, which results in 'username' running the 'pq2' instance.
.TP
PQ2DSMGROPTS
Options to be used in initializing the dataset manager; the default allows for browsing only, e.g. '-Ar:-Av:'
.TP
PQ2DSSRVACTS
List of operations to be done via the data server in the case both PQ2DSSRVURL and PQ2PROOFURL are specified.
By the default, the browsing actions (ls, ls-files, ls-files-server, info-server, ana-dist) are executed via
PQ2DSSRVURL, the others (put, rm, verify) via PQ2PROOFURL. This allows to speed-up the operations by using
caching and to reduce the load on the PROOF master.
.RS
The format is "<action-tag>:" where the action tags are:
.RE
.RS
.nf
              ls             for      ls
              lsfiles        for      ls-files
              filessrv       for      ls-files-server
              infosrv        for      info-server
              anadist        for      ana-dist
              cache          for      cache
              put            for      put
              rm             for      rm
              vfy            for      verify
.fi
.RE
.TP
TMPDIR
Directory used for temporary files or directories; the actual temporary directory is required to end witt the
username (in some cases TMPDIR already ends with the username).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIpq2\fR(1), \fIpq2-ls\fR(1), \fIpq2-ls-files\fR(1), \fIpq2-ls-files-server\fR(1),
\fIpq2-info-server\fR(1), \fIpq2-ana-dist\fR(1),
\fIpq2-put\fR(1), \fIpq2-verify\fR(1), \fIpq2-rm\fR(1), \fIpq2-cache\fR(1)
.PP
For more information on the \fBROOT\fR system, please refer to
.UR http://root.cern.ch/
.I http://root.cern.ch
.UE
.SH "ORIGINAL AUTHORS"
Gerardo Ganis for the ROOT team.
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as
published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the
License, or (at your option) any later version.
.P
This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
Lesser General Public License for more details.
.P
You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was originally written by Gerardo Ganis <gerardo.ganis@cern.ch>, for ROOT version 5.
