.\"
.\" $Id: xprep.1,v 1.1 2005/11/21 11:25:37 rdm Exp $
.\"
.TH XPREP 1 "Version 3" "ROOT"
.\" NAME should be all caps, SECTION should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parms are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.SH NAME
xprep \- XRootD utility to stage files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xprep
.I  SOURCE
.I  DEST
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B Xprep 
is a tool to copy for staging files at a specific location. 
.P
.I SOURCE 
is in the format \fIHOST\fR[:\fIPORT\fR], and 
.I DEST
is a filesystem path.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.BI \-d LEVEL
Set the debug level
.TP 
.BI \-f FILE
Input file. 
.TP
.B \-p
Unknown
.TP
.B \-s
Stage.
.TP
.B \-w
Wode mode.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIroot\fR(1), \fIxrootd\fR(1), \fIxrdcp\fR(1)
.PP
See also the \fBROOT\fR webpages:
.UR http://root.cern.ch
\fIhttp://root.cern.ch\fR
.UE
.SH "ORIGINAL AUTHORS"
G. Ganis
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as
published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the
License, or (at your option) any later version.
.P
This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
Lesser General Public License for more details.
.P
You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.SH AUTHOR 
This manual page was written by Christian Holm Christensen
<cholm@nbi.dk>, for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by
others). 
.\"
.\" EOF
.\"
