.\"
.\" $Id: xrdstagetool.1,v 1.1 2005/11/21 11:25:37 rdm Exp $
.\"
.TH XRDSTAGETOOL 1 "Version 3" "ROOT"
.\" NAME should be all caps, SECTION should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parms are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.SH NAME
xrdstagetool \- XRootD staging tool 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xrdstagetool
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
\fIURL_1\fR ... \fIURL_N\fR
.br
.B xrdstagetool
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.I  DEST
.I  SOURCE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B Xrdstagetool 
is a tool for staging files at specified locations.
.P
There are two ways of using this tool. 
.TP
\fBxrdstatetool\fR \fIURL_1\fR ... \fIURL_N\fR
Requests \fBXrootD\fR mass storage system staging for the listed
complete \fBXrootD\fR URLs in the form
\fBroot://\fIhost\fB//\fIabsolute_path_of_a_file\fR. Please note that
in the \fBXrootD\fR world a mass storage system is not necessarily a
tape system.  Some form of staging system must be set up in each
contacted host.
.TP
\fBxrdstatetool\fR
\fBroot://\fIdest_host\fB//\fIdest_file\fR \fBroot://\fIsrc_host\fB//\fIsrc_file\fR
Contacts the \fIdest_host\fR host and requests to stage the file
\fIdest_file\fR by fetching it from
\fBroot://\fIsrc_host\fB//\fIsrc_file\fR. This feature must be set up
in the \fIdest_host\fR, and the \fIsrc_host\fR must be reachable by
\fIdest_host\fR and by all of its data servers.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.BI \-d LEVEL
Set the debug level (0 to 4)
.TP 
.BI \-f FILE
Input file. 
.TP
.B \-p
 Asynchronous staging through Prepare request (must be set up at the
 involved server side) 
.TP
.BI -O INFO
Add some opaque info to the issued requests.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIroot\fR(1), \fIxrootd\fR(1), \fIxrdcp\fR(1), \fIxprep\fR(1)
.PP
See also the \fBROOT\fR webpages:
.UR http://root.cern.ch
\fIhttp://root.cern.ch\fR
.UE
.SH "ORIGINAL AUTHORS"
G. Ganis
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as
published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the
License, or (at your option) any later version.
.P
This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
Lesser General Public License for more details.
.P
You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.SH AUTHOR 
This manual page was written by Christian Holm Christensen
<cholm@nbi.dk>, for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by
others). 
.\"
.\" EOF
.\"
